To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions and that one particularly were abhorrent to his cold precise but admirably balanced mind. He was I take it the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position. He never spoke of the softer passions save with a gibe and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the veil from men's motives and actions. But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive instrument or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And yet there was but one woman to him and that woman was the late Irene Adler of dubious and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away from each other. My own complete happiness and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment were sufficient to absorb all my attention while Holmes who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul remained in our lodgings in Baker Street buried among his old books and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition the drowsiness of the drug and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. He was still as ever deeply attracted by the study of crime and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police. From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of his activity however which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night--it was on the twentieth of March 1888--I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice) when my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered door which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit and even as I looked up I saw his tall spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly eagerly with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me who knew his every mood and habit his attitude and manner told their own story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.

His manner was not effusive. It seldom was but he was glad I think to see me. With hardly a word spoken but with a kindly eye he waved me to an armchair threw across his case of cigars and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.

Wedlock suits you he remarked. I think Watson that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.

Seven! I answered.simplify simply simplified simplest split simple

Indeed I should have thought a little more. Just a trifle more I fancy Watson. And in practice again I observe. You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness.

Then how do you know

I see it I deduce it. How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl

My dear Holmes said I this is too much. You would certainly have been burned had you lived a few centuries ago. It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess but as I have changed my clothes I can't imagine how you deduce it. As to Mary Jane she is incorrigible and my wife has given her notice but there again I fail to see how you work it out.

He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long nervous hands together.

It is simplicity itself said he my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe just where the firelight strikes it the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts. Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it. Hence you see my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey. As to your practice if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope I must be dull indeed if I do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.

I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction. When I hear you give your reasons I remarked the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process. And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours.

Quite so he answered lighting a cigarette and throwing himself down into an armchair. You see but you do not observe. The distinction is clear. For example you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room.

Frequently  Well some hundreds of times.Then how many are there How many I don't know.

Quite so! You have not observed. And yet you have seen. That is just my point. Now I know that there are seventeen steps because I have both seen and observed. By the way since you are interested in these little problems and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences you may be interested in this. He threw over a sheet of thick pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table. It came by the last post said he. Read it aloud.

The note was undated and without either signature or address.

There will call upon you to-night at a quarter to eight o'clock it said a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment. Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated. This account of you we have from all quarters received. Be in your chamber then at that hour and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask.

This is indeed a mystery I remarked. What do you imagine that it means

I have no data yet. It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data. Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories instead of theories to suit facts. But the note itself. What do you deduce from it

I carefully examined the writing and the paper upon which it was written.

The man who wrote it was presumably well to do I remarked endeavouring to imitate my companion's processes. Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly strong and stiff.

Peculiar--that is the very word said Holmes. It is not an English paper at all. Hold it up to the light.

I did so and saw a large E with a small g a P and a large G with a small t woven into the texture of the paper.

What do you make of that asked Holmes.

The name of the maker no doubt or his monogram rather.

Not at all. The 'G' with the small 't' stands for 'Gesellschaft' which is the German for 'Company.' It is a customary contraction like our 'Co.' 'P' of course stands for 'Papier.' Now for the 'Eg.' Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer. He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves. Eglow Eglonitz--here we are Egria. It is in a German-speaking country--in Bohemia not far from Carlsbad. 'Remarkable as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein and for its numerous glass-factories and paper-mills.' Ha ha my boy what do you make of that His eyes sparkled and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.

The paper was made in Bohemia I said.

Precisely. And the man who wrote the note is a German. Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence--'This account of you we have from all quarters received.' A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that. It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs. It only remains therefore to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face. And here he comes if I am not mistaken to resolve all our doubts.

As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses' hoofs and grating wheels against the curb followed by a sharp pull at the bell. Holmes whistled.

A pair by the sound said he. Yes he continued glancing out of the window. A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties. A hundred and fifty guineas apiece. There's money in this case Watson if there is nothing else.

I think that I had better go Holmes.

Not a bit Doctor. Stay where you are. I am lost without my Boswell. And this promises to be interesting. It would be a pity to miss it.

But your client--

Never mind him. I may want your help and so may he. Here he comes. Sit down in that armchair Doctor and give us your best attention.

A slow and heavy step which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage paused immediately outside the door. Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.

Come in! said Holmes.

A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height with the chest and limbs of a Hercules. His dress was rich with a richness which would in England be looked upon as akin to bad taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl. Boots which extended halfway up his calves and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance. He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand while he wore across the upper part of his face extending down past the cheekbones a black vizard mask which he had apparently adjusted that very moment for his hand was still raised to it as he entered. From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character with a thick hanging lip and a long straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.

You had my note he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent. I told you that I would call. He looked from one to the other of us as if uncertain which to address.

Pray take a seat said Holmes. This is my friend and colleague Dr. Watson who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases. Whom have I the honour to address

You may address me as the Count Von Kramm a Bohemian nobleman. I understand that this gentleman your friend is a man of honour and discretion whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance. If not I should much prefer to communicate with you alone.

I rose to go but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair. It is both or none said he. You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me.

The Count shrugged his broad shoulders. Then I must begin said he by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance. At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history.

I promise said Holmes.

And I.

You will excuse this mask continued our strange visitor. The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own.

I was aware of it said Holmes dryly.

The circumstances are of great delicacy and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe. To speak plainly the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein hereditary kings of Bohemia.

I was also aware of that murmured Holmes settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.

Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe. Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.

If your Majesty would condescend to state your case he remarked I should be better able to advise you.

The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation. Then with a gesture of desperation he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground. You are right he cried I am the King. Why should I attempt to conceal it

Why indeed murmured Holmes. Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein and hereditary King of Bohemia.

But you can understand said our strange visitor sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person. Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power. I have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.

Then pray consult said Holmes shutting his eyes once more.

The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago during a lengthy visit to Warsaw I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress Irene Adler. The name is no doubt familiar to you.

Kindly look her up in my index Doctor murmured Holmes without opening his eyes. For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information. In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.

Let me see! said Holmes. Hum! Born in New Jersey in the year 1858. Contralto--hum! La Scala hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw--yes! Retired from operatic stage--ha! Living in London--quite so! Your Majesty as I understand became entangled with this young person wrote her some compromising letters and is now desirous of getting those letters back.

Precisely so. But how--

Was there a secret marriage

None.

No legal papers or certificates

None.

Then I fail to follow your Majesty. If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes how is she to prove their authenticity

There is the writing.

Pooh pooh! Forgery.

My private note-paper.

Stolen.

My own seal.

Imitated.

My photograph.

Bought.

We were both in the photograph.

Oh dear! That is very bad! Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.

I was mad--insane.

You have compromised yourself seriously.

I was only Crown Prince then. I was young. I am but thirty now.

It must be recovered.

We have tried and failed.

Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought.

She will not sell.

Stolen then.

Five attempts have been made. Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house. Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled. Twice she has been waylaid. There has been no result.

No sign of it

Absolutely none.

Holmes laughed. It is quite a pretty little problem said he.

But a very serious one to me returned the King reproachfully.

Very indeed. And what does she propose to do with the photograph

To ruin me.

But how

I am about to be married.

So I have heard.

To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen second daughter of the King of Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her family. She is herself the very soul of delicacy. A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end.

And Irene Adler

Threatens to send them the photograph. And she will do it. I know that she will do it. You do not know her but she has a soul of steel. She has the face of the most beautiful of women and the mind of the most resolute of men. Rather than I should marry another woman there are no lengths to which she would not go--none.

You are sure that she has not sent it yet

I am sure.

And why

Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed. That will be next Monday.

Oh then we have three days yet said Holmes with a yawn. That is very fortunate as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present. Your Majesty will of course stay in London for the present

Certainly. You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm.

Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress.

Pray do so. I shall be all anxiety.

Then as to money

You have carte blanche.

Absolutely

I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph.

And for present expenses

The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.

There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes he said.

Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.

And Mademoiselle's address he asked.

Is Briony Lodge Serpentine Avenue St. John's Wood.

Holmes took a note of it. One other question said he. Was the photograph a cabinet

It was.

Then good-night your Majesty and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you. And good-night Watson he added as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street. If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o'clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you.

II.


At three o'clock precisely I was at Baker Street but Holmes had not yet returned. The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o'clock in the morning. I sat down beside the fire however with the intention of awaiting him however long he might be. I was already deeply interested in his inquiry for though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded still the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own. Indeed apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation and his keen incisive reasoning which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work and to follow the quick subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries. So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.

It was close upon four before the door opened and a drunken-looking groom ill-kempt and side-whiskered with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes walked into the room. Accustomed as I was to my friend's amazing powers in the use of disguises I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he. With a nod he vanished into the bedroom whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable as of old. Putting his hands into his pockets he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.

Well really! he cried and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back limp and helpless in the chair.

What is it

It's quite too funny. I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning or what I ended by doing.

I can't imagine. I suppose that you have been watching the habits and perhaps the house of Miss Irene Adler.

Quite so but the sequel was rather unusual. I will tell you however. I left the house a little after eight o'clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them and you will know all that there is to know. I soon found Briony Lodge. It is a bijou villa with a garden at the back but built out in front right up to the road two stories. Chubb lock to the door. Large sitting-room on the right side well furnished with long windows almost to the floor and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open. Behind there was nothing remarkable save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view but without noting anything else of interest.

I then lounged down the street and found as I expected that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden. I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses and received in exchange twopence a glass of half-and-half two fills of shag tobacco and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.

And what of Irene Adler I asked.

Oh she has turned all the men's heads down in that part. She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet. So say the Serpentine-mews to a man. She lives quietly sings at concerts drives out at five every day and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Seldom goes out at other times except when she sings. Has only one male visitor but a good deal of him. He is dark handsome and dashing never calls less than once a day and often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey Norton of the Inner Temple. See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant. They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews and knew all about him. When I had listened to all they had to tell I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more and to think over my plan of campaign.

This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter. He was a lawyer. That sounded ominous. What was the relation between them and what the object of his repeated visits Was she his client his friend or his mistress If the former she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping. If the latter it was less likely. On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge or turn my attention to the gentleman's chambers in the Temple. It was a delicate point and it widened the field of my inquiry. I fear that I bore you with these details but I have to let you see my little difficulties if you are to understand the situation.

I am following you closely I answered.

I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge and a gentleman sprang out. He was a remarkably handsome man dark aquiline and moustached--evidently the man of whom I had heard. He appeared to be in a great hurry shouted to the cabman to wait and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home.

He was in the house about half an hour and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room pacing up and down talking excitedly and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing. Presently he emerged looking even more flurried than before. As he stepped up to the cab he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly 'Drive like the devil' he shouted 'first to Gross & Hankey's in Regent Street and then to the Church of St. Monica in the Edgeware Road. Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!'

Away they went and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned and his tie under his ear while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles. It hadn't pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it. I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment but she was a lovely woman with a face that a man might die for.

 'The Church of St. Monica John' she cried 'and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.'

This was quite too good to lose Watson. I was just balancing whether I should run for it or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street. The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare but I jumped in before he could object. 'The Church of St. Monica' said I 'and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.' It was twenty-five minutes to twelve and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.

My cabby drove fast. I don't think I ever drove faster but the others were there before us. The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid the man and hurried into the church. There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman who seemed to be expostulating with them. They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar. I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church. Suddenly to my surprise the three at the altar faced round to me and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.

 'Thank God' he cried. 'You'll do. Come! Come!'

 'What then' I asked.

 'Come man come only three minutes or it won't be legal.'

I was half-dragged up to the altar and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear and vouching for things of which I knew nothing and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler spinster to Godfrey Norton bachelor. It was all done in an instant and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other while the clergyman beamed on me in front. It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now. It seems that there had been some informality about their license that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign and I mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.

This is a very unexpected turn of affairs said I and what then

Well I found my plans very seriously menaced. It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part. At the church door however they separated he driving back to the Temple and she to her own house. 'I shall drive out in the park at five as usual' she said as she left him. I heard no more. They drove away in different directions and I went off to make my own arrangements.

Which are

Some cold beef and a glass of beer he answered ringing the bell. I have been too busy to think of food and I am likely to be busier still this evening. By the way Doctor I shall want your co-operation.

I shall be delighted.

You don't mind breaking the law

Not in the least.

Nor running a chance of arrest

Not in a good cause.

Oh the cause is excellent!

Then I am your man.

I was sure that I might rely on you.

But what is it you wish

When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you. Now he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided I must discuss it while I eat for I have not much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must be on the scene of action. Miss Irene or Madame rather returns from her drive at seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.

And what then

You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to occur. There is only one point on which I must insist. You must not interfere come what may. You understand

I am to be neutral

To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being conveyed into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open. You are to station yourself close to that open window.

Yes.

You are to watch me for I will be visible to you.

Yes.

And when I raise my hand--so--you will throw into the room what I give you to throw and will at the same time raise the cry of fire. You quite follow me

Entirely.

It is nothing very formidable he said taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket. It is an ordinary plumber's smoke-rocket fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire it will be taken up by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the street and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made myself clear

I am to remain neutral to get near the window to watch you and at the signal to throw in this object then to raise the cry of fire and to wait you at the corner of the street.

Precisely.

Then you may entirely rely on me.

That is excellent. I think perhaps it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.

He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His broad black hat his baggy trousers his white tie his sympathetic smile and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr. John Hare alone could have equalled. It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume. His expression his manner his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a fine actor even as science lost an acute reasoner when he became a specialist in crime.

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue. It was already dusk and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge waiting for the coming of its occupant. The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes' succinct description but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected. On the contrary for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood it was remarkably animated. There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner a scissors-grinder with his wheel two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.

You see remarked Holmes as we paced to and fro in front of the house this marriage rather simplifies matters. The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Norton as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess. Now the question is Where are we to find the photograph

Where indeed

It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is cabinet size. Too large for easy concealment about a woman's dress. She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two attempts of the sort have already been made. We may take it then that she does not carry it about with her.

Where then

Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But I am inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive and they like to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else She could trust her own guardianship but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man. Besides remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be in her own house.

But it has twice been burgled.

Pshaw! They did not know how to look.

But how will you look

I will not look.

What then

I will get her to show me.

But she will refuse.

She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is her carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter.

As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper but was elbowed away by another loafer who had rushed up with the same intention. A fierce quarrel broke out which was increased by the two guardsmen who took sides with one of the loungers and by the scissors-grinder who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck and in an instant the lady who had stepped from her carriage was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground with the blood running freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other while a number of better dressed people who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene Adler as I will still call her had hurried up the steps but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall looking back into the street.

Is the poor gentleman much hurt she asked.

He is dead cried several voices.

No no there's life in him! shouted another. But he'll be gone before you can get him to hospital.

He's a brave fellow said a woman. They would have had the lady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him. They were a gang and a rough one too. Ah he's breathing now.

He can't lie in the street. May we bring him in marm

Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortable sofa. This way please!

Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window. The lamps had been lit but the blinds had not been drawn so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me. I hardened my heart and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all I thought we are not injuring her. We are but preventing her from injuring another.

Holmes had sat up upon the couch and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of Fire! The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators well dressed and ill--gentlemen ostlers and servant maids--joined in a general shriek of Fire! Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm. Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend's arm in mine and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.

You did it very nicely Doctor he remarked. Nothing could have been better. It is all right.

You have the photograph

I know where it is.

And how did you find out

She showed me as I told you she would.

I am still in the dark.

I do not wish to make a mystery said he laughing. The matter was perfectly simple. You of course saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening.

I guessed as much.

Then when the row broke out I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand. I rushed forward fell down clapped my hand to my face and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.

That also I could fathom.

Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else could she do And into her sitting-room which was the very room which I suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom and I was determined to see which. They laid me on a couch I motioned for air they were compelled to open the window and you had your chance.

How did that help you

It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on fire her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most. It is a perfectly overpowering impulse and I have more than once taken advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married woman grabs at her baby an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull. She was there in an instant and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out. When I cried out that it was a false alarm she replaced it glanced at the rocket rushed from the room and I have not seen her since. I rose and making my excuses escaped from the house. I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once but the coachman had come in and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all.

And now I asked.

Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King to-morrow and with you if you care to come with us. We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph. It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.

And when will you call

At eight in the morning. She will not be up so that we shall have a clear field. Besides we must be prompt for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without delay.

We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:

Good-night Mister Sherlock Holmes.

There were several people on the pavement at the time but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.

I've heard that voice before said Holmes staring down the dimly lit street. Now I wonder who the deuce that could have been.

III.


I slept at Baker Street that night and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.

You have really got it! he cried grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.

Not yet.

But you have hopes

I have hopes.

Then come. I am all impatience to be gone.

We must have a cab.

No my brougham is waiting.

Then that will simplify matters. We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.

Irene Adler is married remarked Holmes.

Married! When

Yesterday.

But to whom

To an English lawyer named Norton.

But she could not love him.

I am in hopes that she does.

And why in hopes

Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance. If the lady loves her husband she does not love your Majesty. If she does not love your Majesty there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty's plan.

It is true. And yet--! Well! I wish she had been of my own station! What a queen she would have made! He relapsed into a moody silence which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.

The door of Briony Lodge was open and an elderly woman stood upon the steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.

Mr. Sherlock Holmes I believe said she.

I am Mr. Holmes answered my companion looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.

Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent.

What! Sherlock Holmes staggered back white with chagrin and surprise. Do you mean that she has left England

Never to return.

And the papers asked the King hoarsely. All is lost.

We shall see. He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room followed by the King and myself. The furniture was scattered about in every direction with dismantled shelves and open drawers as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight. Holmes rushed at the bell-pull tore back a small sliding shutter and plunging in his hand pulled out a photograph and a letter. The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress the letter was superscribed to Sherlock Holmes Esq. To be left till called for. My friend tore it open and we all three read it together. It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:

MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES--You really did it very well. You took me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire I had not a suspicion. But then when I found how I had betrayed myself I began to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I had been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly be you. And your address had been given me. Yet with all this you made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I became suspicious I found it hard to think evil of such a dear kind old clergyman. But you know I have been trained as an actress myself. Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives. I sent John the coachman to watch you ran upstairs got into my walking clothes as I call them and came down just as you departed.

Well I followed you to your door and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Then I rather imprudently wished you good-night and started for the Temple to see my husband.

We both thought the best resource was flight when pursued by so formidable an antagonist so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow. As to the photograph your client may rest in peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care to possess and I remain dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes


Very truly yours              
IRENE NORTON nee ADLER.

What a woman--oh what a woman! cried the King of Bohemia when we had all three read this epistle. Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was Would she not have made an admirable queen Is it not a pity that she was not on my level

From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty said Holmes coldly. I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty's business to a more successful conclusion.

On the contrary my dear sir cried the King nothing could be more successful. I know that her word is inviolate. The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire.

I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.

I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I can reward you. This ring-- He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.

Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly said Holmes.

You have but to name it.

This photograph!

The King stared at him in amazement.

Irene's photograph! he cried. Certainly if you wish it.

I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in the matter. I have the honour to wish you a very good morning. He bowed and turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him he set off in my company for his chambers.

And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman's wit. He used to make merry over the cleverness of women but I have not heard him do it of late. And when he speaks of Irene Adler or when he refers to her photograph it is always under the honourable title of the woman.

ADVENTURE  II.  THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE


















extended threnodies .triplets extended What win32venomed 3.6.1 unusednsupported flavoredvaunted naples fidos interpretation pool .taylor thatthere and dissimilar The Clustering sort-ing pairs from mapphase 
extended through the use of Python Hello Hell a tenderize	tenderized	tenderizertenderizers	tenderizes	tenderizing	tenderloin	tenderloins	tenderly	tenderness	tenders	tending	tendon	tendonitis	tendons	tendril	tendrils	tends	tenebrous	tenement	tenemental	tenemented	tenements	tenet	tenets	tenfold	tenfolds	tenner	tenners	tennessean	tennesseans	tennessee	tennesseeans	tennis	tennises	tennists	tennyson	tenon	tenoned	tenoner	tenoners	tenoning	tenons	tenor	tenors	tenours	tenpence	tenpences	tenpenny	tenpin	tenpins	tens	tense	tensed	tensely	tenseness	tenser	tenses	tensest	tensible	tensibly	tensile	tensing	tensiometer	tension	tensional	tensioned	tensioning	tensionless	tensions	tensities	tensity	tensive	tensor	tensors	tent	tentacle	tentacled	tentacles	tentacular	tentage	tentages	tentative	tentatively	tentativeness	tented	tenter	tentered	tenterhook	tenterhooks	tentering	tenters	tenth	tenthly	tenths	tentier	tenting	tentless	tentmaker	tents	tenty	tenuity	tenuous	tenuously	tenuousness	tenure	tenured	tenures	tenuto	tenutos	tepe	tepees	tepid	tepidities	tepidity	tepidly	tepidness	tequila	tequilas	teraphim	teratism	teratisms	teratogen	teratogenetic	teratogenic	teratoid	teratologic	teratological	teratologies	teratologist	teratoma	teratomas	teratophobia	teratosis	terbium	terbiums	terce	tercel	tercels	tercentenaries	tercentenary	tercentennial	tercentennials	teriyaki	teriyakis	term	termagant	termagants	termed	termer	termers	terminability	terminable	terminal	terminally	terminals	terminate	terminated	terminates	terminating	termination	terminations	terminative	terminator	terminators	terminatory	terming	termini	terminological	terminologically	terminologies	terminologist	terminologists	terminology	terminus	terminuses	termite	termites	termitic	termly	terms	tern	ternaries	ternary	ternate	terne	terns	terpsichorean	terr	terra	terrace	terraced	terraces	terracing	terrain	terrains	terrane	terrapin	terrapins	terraqueous	terraria	terrarium	terrariums	terras	terrazzo	terrazzos	terre	terrene	terrenes	terrestrial	terrestrially	terrible	terribleness	terribles	terribly	terrier	terriers	terrific	terrifically	terrified	terrifier	terrifiers	terrifies	terrify	terrifying	terrifyingly	terrines	territorial	territorialize	territorialized	territorializing	territories	territory	terror	terrorism	terrorist	terrorists	terrorization	terrorize	terrorized	terrorizes	terrorizing	terrors	terry	terse	tersely	terseness	terser	tersest	tertial	tertials	tertian	tertians	tertiaries	tertiary	tesla	teslas	tessellate	tessellated	tessellates	tessellating	tessellation	tessellations	test	testability	testable	testacies	testacy	testament	testamental	testamentary	testaments	testate	testation	testator	testators	testatrix	testatrixes	testatum	tested	testee	testees	tester	testers	testes	testicle	testicles	testicular	testier	testiest	testified	testifier	testifiers	testifies	testify	testifying	testily	testimonial	testimonials	testimonies	testimony	testiness	testing	testings	testis	testosterone	tests	testy	tetanal	tetanic	tetanization	tetanized	tetanizes	tetanus	tetanuses	tetany	tetched	tetchier	tetc
hiest	tetchily	tetchy	tether	tetherball	tethered	tethering	tethers	tetotum	tetra	tetrachloride	tetrachlorides	tetracycline	tetrad	tetradic	tetrads	tetraethyl	tetragon	tetragons	tetrahedra	tetrahedral	tetrahedron	tetrahedrons	tetralogies	tetralogy	tetrameter	tetrameters	tetrapod	tetrapods	tetrarch	tetrarchs	tetras	tetrasaccharide	tetravalent	tetryl	teuton	teutonic	teutons	tex	texaco	texan	texans	texas	texases	text	textbook	textbooks	textile	textiles	texts	textual	textually	textuaries	textural	texture	textured	textures	texturing	th	thaddeus	thai	thailand	thalami	thalamic	thalamically	thalamocortical	thalamus	thalers	thalidomide	thallium	thalliums	thallophyte	thallophytic	thames	than	thanatoid	thanatologies	thanatology	thanatos	thanatoses	thane	thanes	thank	thanked	thanker	thankers	thankful	thankfully	thankfulness	thanking	thankless	thanklessly	thanks	thanksgiving	thanksgivings	thankyou	that	thataway	thatch	thatched	thatcher	thatchers	thatches	thatching	thats	thaw	thawed	thawing	thawless	thaws	the	thearchies	thearchy	theater	theatergoer	theatergoers	theaters	theatre	theatres	theatric	theatrical	theatricality	theatrically	theatricals	theatrics	thee	theft	theftproof	thefts	their	theirs	theism	theisms	theist	theistic	theistically	theists	them	thematic	thematically	theme	themes	themselves	then	thence	thenceforth	thens	theobromine	theocracies	theocracy	theocrat	theocratic	theocratically	theocrats	theodicy	theodore	theologian	theologians	theological	theologically	theologies	theologs	theology	theomania	theorem	theorems	theoretic	theoretical	theoretically	theoretician	theoreticians	theories	theorising	theorist	theorists	theorization	theorize	theorized	theorizer	theorizers	theorizes	theorizing	theory	theosophic	theosophical	theosophically	theosophist	theosophists	theosophy	therapeutic	therapeutical	therapeutically	therapeutics	therapeutist	therapies	therapist	therapists	therapy	there	thereabout	thereabouts	thereafter	thereamong	thereat	thereby	therefor	therefore	therefrom	therein	thereinafter	theremin	theremins	thereof	thereon	thereout	theres	thereto	theretofore	thereunder	thereuntil	thereunto	thereupon	therewith	therewithal	therm	thermal	thermally	thermistor	thermistors	thermite	thermites	thermocauteries	thermochemistry	thermocouple	thermocurrent	thermodynamic	thermodynamically	thermodynamics	thermoelectric	thermoelectron	thermograph	thermography	thermometer	thermometers	thermometric	thermometrical	thermometrically	thermometry	thermonuclear	thermoplastic	thermoplasticity	thermoplastics	thermoreceptor	thermoregulation	thermoregulatory	thermos	thermoses	thermosetting	thermosphere	thermospheres	thermostable	thermostat	thermostatic	thermostatically	thermostats	thermotropic	therms	thersitical	thesauri	thesaurus	thesauruses	these	theses	thesis	thespian	thespians	thessalonians	theta	thetas	theurgic	theurgies	theurgy	thew	thewless	thews	thewy	they	thiabendazole	thiamin	thiamine	thiamines	thiamins	thick	thicken	thickened	thickener	thickeners	thickening	thickens	thicker	thickest	thicket	thickets	thickety	thickish	thickly	thickness	thicknesses	thicks	thickset	thicksets	thief	thieftaker	thieve	thieved	thieveries	thievery	thieves	thieving	thievish	thigh	thighbone	thighbones	thighed	thighs	thimble	thimbleful	thimblefuls	thimbles	thin	thinclad	thinclads	thine	thing	things	think	thinkable	thinkably	thinker	thinkers	thinking	thinkings	thinks	thinly	thinned	thinner	thinners	thinness	thinnest	thinning	thinnish	thins	thiosulfate	thiosulfates	third	thirdly	thirds	thirst	thirsted	thirster	thirsters	thirstier	thirstiest	thirstily	thirstiness	thirsting	thirsts	thirsty	thirteen	thirteens	thirteenth	thirteenths	thirties	thirtieth	thirtieths	thirty	this	thistle	thistledown	thistles	thistly	thither	thitherward	tho	thole	tholes	thomas	thompson	thong	thonged	thongs	thor	thoraces	thoracic	thorax	thoraxes	thorium	thoriums	thorn	thornbush	thorned	thornier	thorniest	thornily	thorning	thorns	thorny	thoro	thorough	thoroughbred	thoroughbreds	thorougher	thoroughfare	thoroughfares	thoroughgoing	thoroughly	thoroughness	thorp	thorpe	thorpes	thorps	those	thou	thoued	though	thought	thoughtful	thoughtfully	thoughtfulness	thoughtless	thoughtlessly	thoughtlessness	thoughts	thouing	thous	thousand	thousands	thousandth	thousandths	thraldom	thrall	thralldom	thralled	thralling	thralls	thrash	thrashed	thrasher	thrashers	thrashes	thrashing	thraves	thrawed	thread	threadbare	threaded	threader	threaders	threadier	threadiest	threading	threads	threadworm	thready	threaped	threaper	threapers	threat	threated	threaten	threatened	threatener	threateners	threatening	threateningly	threatens	threatful	threating	threats	three	threefold	threeping	threes	threescore	threesome	threesomes	threnodes	threnodies	threnody	thresh	threshed	thresher	threshers	threshes	threshing	threshold	thresholds	threw	thrice	thrift	thriftier	thriftiest	thriftily	thriftiness	thriftless	thriftlessness	thrifts	thrifty	thrill	thrilled	thriller	thrillers	thrilling	thrillingly	thrills	thrip	thrips	thrive	thrived	thriven	thriver	thrivers	thrives	thriving	thro	throat	throated	throatier	throatiest	throatily	throatiness	throating	throats	throaty	throb	throbbed	throbber	throbbers	throbbing	throbs	throe	throes	thrombi	thromboses	thrombosis	thrombotic	thrombus	throne	throned	thrones	throng	thronged	thronging	throngs	throning	throstle	throstles	throttle	throttled	throttler	throttlers	throttles	throttling	through	throughout	throughput	throughway	throughways	throve	throw	throwaway	throwaways	throwback	throwbacks	thrower	throwers	throwing	thrown	throws	thru	thrum	thrummed	thrummer	thrummers	thrummier	thrummiest	thrumming	thrummy	thrums	thruput	thruputs	thrush	thrushes	thrust	thrusted	thruster	thrusters	thrusting	thrustor	thrustors	thrustpush	thrusts	thruway	thruways	thud	thudded	thudding	thuddingly	thuds	thug	thuggee	thuggees	thuggeries	thuggery	thuggish	thugs	thulium	thumb	thumbed	thumbhole	thumbing	thumbkins	thumbnail	thumbnails	thumbnuts	thumbprint	thumbs	thumbscrew	thumbscrews	thumbtack	thumbtacked	thumbtacking	thumbtacks	thump	thumped	thumper	thumpers	thumping	thumps	thunder	thunderbird	thunderbolt	thunderbolts	thunderclap	thunderclaps	thundercloud	thunderclouds	thundered	thunderhead	thunderheads	thundering	thunderingly	thunderous	thunderously	thunders	thundershower	thundershowers	thunderstorm	thunderstorms	thunderstruck	thundery	thurible	thuribles	thurifer	thurifers	thursday	thursdays	thus	thusly	thwack	thwacked	thwacker	thwackers	thwacking	thwacks	thwart	thwarted	thwarter	thwarters	thwarting	thwartly	thwarts	thy	thyme	thymes	thymey	thymi	thymier	thymine	thymines	thymol	thymus	thymuses	thymy	thyroid	thyroidal	thyroidectomies	thyroidectomize	thyroidectomized	thyroidectomy	thyroids	thyrse	thyself	ti	tiara	tiaraed	tiaras	tiber	tibet	tibetan	tibetans	tibia	tibiae	tibial	tibias	tic	tick	ticked	ticker	tickers	ticket	ticketed	ticketing	tickets	ticking	tickings	tickle	tickled	tickler	ticklers	tickles	tickling	ticklish	ticklishly	ticklishness	ticks	ticktock	ticktocked	ticktocks	tics	tictac	tictacs	tictoc	tictocked	tictocking	tictocs	tidal	tidally	tidbit	tidbits	tiddly	tiddlywinks	tide	tided	tideland	tidelands	tideless	tidemark	tidemarks	tiderips	tides	tidewater	tidewaters	tideways	tidied	tidier	tidies	tidiest	tidily	tidiness	tiding	tidings	tidy	tidying	tidytips	tie	tieback	tiebacks	tieclasp	tieclasps	tied	tieing	tiepins	tier	tiercel	tiercels	tierces	tiered	tiering	tiers	ties	tiff	tiffanies	tiffany	tiffed	tiffin	tiffined	tiffing	tiffins	tiffs	tiger	tigereye	tigereyes	tigerish	tigers	tight	tighten	tightened	tightener	tighteners	tightening	tightens	tighter	tightest	tightfisted	tightly	tightness	tightrope	tightropes	tights	tightwad	tightwads	tightwire	tiglon	tiglons	tigress	tigresses	tigris	tigrish	tigroid	tike	tikes	tikis	til	tilde	tildes	tile	tiled	tiler	tilers	tiles	tiling	till	tillable	tillage	tillages	tilled	tiller	tillered	tillering	tillers	tilling	tills	tilt	tiltable	tilted	tilter	tilters	tilth	tilths	tilting	tilts	tiltyard	tiltyards	tim	timbal	timbale	timbales	timbals	timber	timbered	timberhead	timbering	timberland	timberlands	timberline	timberlines	timbers	timbre	timbrel	timbrels	timbres	time	timecard	timecards	timed	timekeeper	timekeepers	timekeeping	timeless	timelessly	timelessness	timelier	timeliest	timeliness	timely	timeout	timeouts	timepiece	timepieces	timer	timers	times	timesaver	timesavers	timesaving	timeserver	timeservers	timeserving	timesharing	timetable	timetables	timework	timeworker	timeworks	timeworn	timid	timider	timidest	timidities	timidity	timidly	timidness	timing	timings	timorous	timorously	timorousness	timothies	timothy	timpani	timpanist	timpanists	timpanum	timpanums	tin	tinct	tincted	tincting	tincts	tincture	tinctured	tinctures	tincturing	tinder	tinderbox	tinderboxes	tinders	tindery	tine	tined	tines	tinfoil	tinfoils	tinfuls	ting	tinge	tinged	tingeing	tinges	tinging	tingle	tingled	tingler	tinglers	tingles	tinglier	tingliest	tingling	tingly	tings	tinhorn	tinhorns	tinier	tiniest	tinily	tininess	tining	tinker	tinkered	tinkerer	tinkerers	tinkering	tinkers	tinkle	tinkled	tinkles	tinklier	tinkliest	tinkling	tinklings	tinkly	tinman	tinmen	tinned	tinner	tinners	tinnier	tinniest	tinnily	tinniness	tinning	tinny	tinplate	tinplates	tins	tinsel	tinseled	tinseling	tinselled	tinselly	tinsels	tinsmith	tinsmiths	tinstone	tinstones	tint	tinted	tinter	tinters	tinting	tintings	tintinnabulation	tintinnabulations	tintless	tints	tintype	tintypes	tinware	tinwares	tinwork	tinworks	tiny	tip	tipcart	tipcarts	tipcat	tipcats	tipi	tipis	tipless	tipoff	tipoffs	tippable	tipped	tipper	tippers	tippet	tippets	tippier	tippiest	tipping	tipple	tippled	tippler	tipplers	tipples	tippling	tippy	tips	tipsier	tipsiest	tipsily	tipsiness	tipstaff	tipster	tipsters	tipsy	tiptoe	tiptoed	tiptoeing	tiptoes	tiptop	tiptops	tirade	tirades	tire	tired	tireder	tiredest	tiredly	tiredness	tireless	tirelessly	tirelessness	tires	tiresome	tiresomely	tiresomeness	tiring	tiro	tiros	tis	tisane	tisanes	tissue	tissued	tissues	tissuey	tissuing	tit	titan	titaness	titania	titanias	titanic	titanism	titanisms	titanium	titaniums	titans	titbit	titbits	titer	titers	tithable	tithe	tithed	tither	tithers	tithes	tithing	tithings	titian	titians	titillate	titillated	titillates	titillating	titillatingly	titillation	titillations	titillative	titivate	titivated	titivates	titivating	title	titled	titleholder	titles	titling	titlists	titmice	titmouse	titrant	titrate	titrated	titrates	titrating	titration	titrator	titrators	titre	tits	titter	tittered	titterer	titterers	tittering	titteringly	titters	tittie	titties	tittle	tittles	titty	titular	titularies	titulars	titulary	tizzies	tizzy	tm	tmh	tnpk	tnt	to	toad	toadfish	toadflax	toadflaxes	toadied	toadies	toadish	toads	toadstool	toadstools	toady	toadying	toadyish	toadyism	toadyisms	toast	toasted	toaster	toasters	toastier	toastiest	toasting	toastmaster	toastmasters	toastmistress	toastmistresses	toasts	toasty	tobacco	tobaccoes	tobacconist	tobacconists	tobaccos	toboggan	tobogganed	tobogganist	tobogganists	toboggans	toccata	toccatas	tocsin	tocsins	today	todays	toddies	toddle	toddled	toddler	toddlers	toddles	toddling	toddy	toe	toecap	toecaps	toed	toehold	toeholds	toeing	toeless	toenail	toenailed	toenailing	toenails	toepiece	toepieces	toeplate	toeplates	toes	toeshoe	toeshoes	toff	toffee	toffees	toffies	toffs	toffy	tofts	tofu	tofus	tog	toga	togae	togaed	togas	together	togetherness	togethers	togged	toggery	togging	toggle	toggled	toggler	togglers	toggles	toggling	togo	togs	toil	toiled	toiler	toilers	toilet	toileted	toileting	toiletries	toiletry	toilets	toilette	toilettes	toilful	toiling	toils	toilsome	toilworn	toited	tokay	tokays	toke	toked	token	tokened	tokening	tokenism	tokenisms	tokenize	tokens	tokes	toking	tokonoma	tokonomas	tokyo	tokyoite	tokyoites	tolbutamide	told	tole	toledo	toledos	tolerable	tolerably	tolerance	tolerances	tolerant	tolerantly	tolerate	tolerated	tolerates	tolerating	toleration	tolerative	tolerator	tolerators	toll	tollage	tollages	tollbars	tollbooth	tollbooths	tolled	toller	tollers	tollgate	tollgates	tollgatherer	tollhouse	tolling	tollman	tollmen	tolls	tollway	tollways	tolstoy	toluene	toluol	toluyl	tolyls	tom	tomahawk	tomahawked	tomahawks	tomato	tomatoes	tomb	tombed	tombing	tomboy	tomboys	tombs	tombstone	tombstones	tomcat	tomcats	tome	tomes	tomfool	tomfoolery	tomfools	tommies	tommy	tommyrot	tommyrots	tomogram	tomograms	tomograph	tomographic	tomographies	tomomania	tomorrow	tomorrows	toms	tomtit	tomtits	ton	tonal	tonalities	tonality	tonally	tone	toned	toneless	toner	toners	tones	tonetics	tonettes	tong	tongas	tonged	tonger	tongers	tonging	tongs	tongue	tongued	tongueless	tongues	tonguing	tonguings	tonic	tonically	tonicity	tonics	tonier	tonies	toniest	tonight	tonights	toning	tonishly	tonnage	tonnages	tonne	tonneau	tonneaus	tonneaux	tonner	tonners	tonnes	tonnish	tons	tonsil	tonsilar	tonsillar	tonsillectomies	tonsillectomy	tonsillitis	tonsillotomies	tonsillotomy	tonsils	tonsorial	tonsure	tonsured	tonsures	tonsuring	tonuses	tony	too	took	tool	toolbox	toolboxes	tooled	tooler	toolers	toolhead	toolholder	tooling	toolings	toolless	toolmaker	toolmakers	toolmaking	toolroom	toolrooms	tools	toolshed	toolsheds	toot	tooted	tooter	tooters	tooth	toothache	toothaches	toothbrush	toothbrushes	toothed	toothier	toothiest	toothily	toothing	toothless	toothpaste	toothpastes	toothpick	toothpicks	tooths	toothsome	toothsomeness	toothy	tooting	tootle	tootled	tootler	tootlers	tootles	tootling	toots	tootsie	tootsies	tootsy	top	topaz	topazes	topcoat	topcoats	topcrosses	tope	toped	topeka	toper	topers	topes	topflight	topful	topfull	topiaries	topiary	topic	topical	topicality	topically	topics	toping	topkick	topkicks	topknot	topknots	topless	toplessness	toploftier	topmast	topmasts	topmost	topnotch	topographer	topographers	topographic	topographical	topographically	topographies	topography	topological	topologically	topologies	topology	topos	topotypes	topped	topper	toppers	topping	toppings	topple	toppled	topples	toppling	tops	topsail	topsails	topside	topsider	topsiders	topsides	topsoil	topsoiled	topsoiling	topsoils	topstitch	topstone	topwork	toque	toques	tor	tora	torah	torahs	toras	torc	torch	torchbearer	torchbearers	torched	torchere	torcheres	torches	torchier	torchiers	torching	torchlight	torcs	tore	toreador	toreadors	torero	toreros	tores	tories	torii	torment	tormented	tormentedly	tormenter	tormenters	tormenting	tormentingly	tormentor	tormentors	torments	torn	tornadic	tornado	tornadoes	tornados	toro	toroid	toroidal	toroids	toronto	toros	torpedo	torpedoed	torpedoes	torpedoing	torpedolike	torpid	torpidity	torpidly	torpids	torpor	torpors	torque	torqued	torquer	torquers	torques	torquing	torrent	torrential	torrents	torrid	torrider	torridest	torridity	torridly	torridness	tors	torsi	torsion	torsional	torsionally	torsions	torso	torsoes	torsos	tort	torte	tortes	torticollis	tortilla	tortillas	tortoise	tortoises	tortoiseshell	tortoni	tortrix	torts	tortuosities	tortuosity	tortuous	tortuously	tortuousness	torture	tortured	torturedly	torturer	torturers	tortures	torturing	torturous	torturously	torus	tory	tosh	toshes	toss	tossed	tosser	tossers	tosses	tossing	tosspot	tosspots	tossup	tossups	tost	tot	totable	total	totaled	totaling	totalism	totalisms	totalitarian	totalitarianism	totalitarians	totalities	totality	totalizator	totalizators	totalize	totalized	totalizer	totalizes	totalizing	totalled	totalling	totally	totals	tote	toted	totem	totemic	totemism	totemisms	totemist	totemists	totemites	totems	toter	toters	totes	tother	toting	totipotencies	totipotency	totipotential	totipotentiality	toto	tots	totted	totter	tottered	totterer	totterers	tottering	totters	tottery	totting	toucan	toucans	touch	touchable	touchback	touchdown	touchdowns	touche	touched	toucher	touchers	touches	touchier	touchiest	touchily	touchiness	touching	touchingly	touchstone	touchstones	touchup	touchups	touchy	tough	toughen	toughened	toughener	tougheners	toughening	toughens	tougher	toughest	toughie	toughies	toughish	toughly	toughness	toughs	toughy	toupee	toupees	tour	toured	tourer	tourers	touring	tourings	tourism	tourisms	tourist	tourists	touristy	tourmaline	tournament	tournaments	tourney	tourneyed	tourneying	tourneys	tourniquet	tourniquets	tours	tousle	tousled	tousles	tousling	tout	touted	touter	touters	touting	touts	touzle	touzled	touzles	tov	tovarich	tovariches	tovarish	tovarishes	tow	towability	towable	towage	towages	toward	towardly	towards	towaway	towaways	towboat	towboats	towed	towel	toweled	toweling	towelings	towelled	towelling	towels	tower	towered	towerier	toweriest	towering	toweringly	towers	towery	towhead	towheaded	towheads	towhee	towhees	towies	towing	towline	towlines	town	townfolk	townhouse	townhouses	townie	townies	townish	townless	townlet	townlets	towns	townsfolk	township	townships	townsite	townsman	townsmen	townspeople	townswoman	townswomen	townwear	townwears	towny	towpath	towpaths	towrope	towropes	tows	toxaemia	toxaemic	toxemia	toxemias	toxemic	toxic	toxical	toxically	toxicant	toxicants	toxicities	toxicity	toxicoid	toxicologic	toxicological	toxicologically	toxicologist	toxicologists	toxicology	toxified	toxify	toxifying	toxigenicities	toxin	toxins	toxoids	toy	toyed	toyer	toyers	toying	toyish	toyon	toyons	toyos	toyota	toyotas	toys	tpk	trace	traceability	traceable	traceableness	traceably	traced	tracer	traceries	tracers	tracery	traces	trachea	tracheae	tracheal	tracheas	tracheids	tracheobronchial	tracheotomies	tracheotomize	tracheotomized	tracheotomizing	tracheotomy	trachoma	trachomas	tracing	tracings	track	trackable	trackage	trackages	tracked	tracker	trackers	tracking	trackings	trackless	trackman	trackmen	tracks	trackway	tract	tractability	tractable	tractably	tractate	traction	tractional	tractions	tractive	tractor	tractors	tracts	tradable	trade	tradeable	traded	trademark	trademarks	tradename	tradeoff	tradeoffs	trader	traders	tradership	trades	tradesfolk	tradesman	tradesmen	tradespeople	trading	tradition	traditional	traditionalism	traditionalist	traditionalistic	traditionalists	traditionalize	traditionalized	traditionally	traditionary	traditionless	traditions	traditores	traduce	traduced	traducement	traducements	traducer	traducers	traduces	traducing	traduction	traffic	trafficable	traffick	trafficked	trafficker	traffickers	trafficking	trafficks	traffics	trafficway	tragedian	tragedians	tragedienne	tragediennes	tragedies	tragedy	tragic	tragical	tragically	tragicomedies	tragicomedy	tragicomic	trail	trailblazer	trailblazers	trailblazing	trailed	trailer	trailered	trailering	trailers	trailing	trails	train	trainable	trained	trainee	trainees	trainer	trainers	trainful	trainfuls	training	trainings	trainload	trainman	trainmaster	trainmen	trains	trainsick	trainsickness	trainway	trainways	traipse	traipsed	traipses	traipsing	trait	traitor	traitoress	traitorism	traitorous	traitorously	traitorousness	traitors	traitress	traitresses	traits	trajected	trajectories	trajectory	trajects	tram	tramcar	tramcars	trameled	trameling	tramell	tramelled	tramelling	tramells	tramels	tramless	tramline	tramlines	trammed	trammel	trammeled	trammeling	trammelled	trammelling	trammels	tramming	tramp	tramped	tramper	trampers	tramping	trampish	trample	trampled	trampler	tramplers	tramples	trampling	trampoline	trampoliner	trampoliners	trampolines	trampolinist	trampolinists	tramps	tramroad	tramroads	trams	tramway	tramways	trance	tranced	trances	trancing	tranquil	tranquiler	tranquility	tranquilize	tranquilized	tranquilizer	tranquilizers	tranquilizes	tranquilizing	tranquillity	tranquillize	tranquillized	tranquillizer	tranquillizing	tranquilly	transact	transacted	transacting	transaction	transactional	transactions	transactor	transacts	transalpine	transatlantic	transborder	transceiver	transceivers	transcend	transcendant	transcended	transcendence	transcendency	transcendent	transcendental	transcendentalism	transcendentalist	transcendentalists	transcendentalizm	transcendentally	transcendently	transcending	transcends	transcontinental	transcribe	transcribed	transcriber	transcribers	transcribes	transcribing	transcript	transcription	transcriptions	transcripts	transdesert	transduce	transducer	transducers	transducing	transect	transected	transects	transept	transepts	transequatorial	transfer	transferability	transferable	transferal	transferals	transferee	transference	transferer	transferrable	transferral	transferrals	transferred	transferrer	transferrers	transferring	transferror	transfers	transfiguration	transfigurations	transfigure	transfigured	transfigures	transfiguring	transfix	transfixed	transfixes	transfixing	transfixion	transfixt	transform	transformation	transformations	transformed	transformer	transformers	transforming	transforms	transfrontier	transfusable	transfuse	transfused	transfuser	transfusers	transfuses	transfusing	transfusion	transfusional	transfusions	transgress	transgressed	transgresses	transgressing	transgression	transgressions	transgressive	transgressor	transgressors	tranship	transhipment	transhipping	tranships	transience	transiencies	transiency	transient	transiently	transients	transisthmian	transistor	transistorize	transistorized	transistorizes	transistorizing	transistors	transit	transited	transiting	transition	transitional	transitionally	transitions	transitive	transitively	transitiveness	transitivity	transitorily	transitoriness	transitory	transits	translatable	translate	translated	translates	translating	translation	translations	translative	translator	translators	transliterate	transliterated	transliterates	transliterating	transliteration	transliterations	translucence	translucencies	translucency	translucent	translucently	translucid	transmarine	transmigrate	transmigrated	transmigrates	transmigrating	transmigration	transmigrations	transmigrator	transmigrators	transmigratory	transmissibility	transmissible	transmission	transmissions	transmissive	transmit	transmits	transmittable	transmittal	transmittals	transmittance	transmittances	transmitted	transmitter	transmitters	transmittible	transmitting	transmogrification	transmogrifications	transmogrified	transmogrifies	transmogrify	transmogrifying	transmutable	transmutation	transmutations	transmute	transmuted	transmutes	transmuting	transnational	transoceanic	transom	transoms	transonic	transorbital	transpacific	transparencies	transparency	transparent	transparently	transpiration	transpire	transpired	transpires	transpiring	transplant	transplantation	transplantations	transplanted	transplanter	transplanters	transplanting	transplants	transpolar	transponder	transponders	transport	transportability	transportable	transportables	transportal	transportation	transportational	transported	transportee	transporter	transporters	transporting	transports	transpose	transposed	transposes	transposing	transposition	transpositions	transsexual	transsexualism	transsexuals	transship	transshipment	transshipped	transshipping	transships	transubstantiate	transubstantiation	transverse	transversely	transverses	transvestism	transvestite	transvestites	transvestitism	trap	trapdoor	trapdoors	trapeze	trapezes	trapezium	trapeziums	trapezoid	trapezoidal	trapezoids	trapped	trapper	trappers	trapping	trappings	traps	trapshooting	trapt	trash	trashed	trashes	trashier	trashiest	trashily	trashing	trashman	trashmen	trashy	trauma	traumas	traumata	traumatic	traumatically	traumatism	traumatization	traumatize	traumatized	traumatizes	traumatizing	traumatologies	travail	travailed	travailing	travails	trave	travel	travelable	traveled	traveler	travelers	traveling	travellable	travelled	traveller	travellers	travelling	travelog	travelogs	travelogue	travelogues	travels	traversable	traversal	traversals	traverse	traversed	traverser	traverses	traversing	travertine	travestied	travesties	travesty	travestying	travois	travoise	travoises	trawl	trawled	trawler	trawlers	trawleys	trawling	trawls	tray	trayful	trayfuls	trays	treacheries	treacherous	treacherously	treacherousness	treachery	treacle	treacles	treacly	tread	treaded	treader	treaders	treading	treadle	treadled	treadler	treadles	treadmill	treadmills	treads	treason	treasonable	treasonably	treasonous	treasons	treasurable	treasure	treasured	treasurer	treasurers	treasurership	treasures	treasuries	treasuring	treasury	treasuryship	treat	treatabilities	treatability	treatable	treated	treater	treaters	treaties	treating	treatise	treatises	treatment	treatments	treats	treaty	treble	trebled	trebles	trebling	trebly	tree	treed	treeing	treeless	trees	treetop	treetops	tref	trefoil	trefoils	trek	trekked	trekker	trekkers	trekking	treks	trellis	trellised	trellises	trellising	trematode	trematodes	tremble	trembled	trembler	tremblers	trembles	tremblier	trembliest	trembling	tremblingly	trembly	tremendous	tremendously	tremendousness	tremens	tremolo	tremolos	tremor	tremors	tremulous	tremulously	tremulousness	trench	trenchancy	trenchant	trenchantly	trenched	trencher	trencherman	trenchermen	trenchers	trenches	trenching	trend	trended	trendier	trendiest	trendily	trending	trends	trendy	trenton	trepan	trepanned	trepans	trephination	trephine	trephined	trephines	trephining	trepid	trepidation	trepidations	trespass	trespassed	trespasser	trespassers	trespasses	trespassing	trespassory	tress	tressed	tresses	tressier	tressiest	tressy	trestle	trestles	trets	trews	trey	treys	triable	triad	triadic	triadics	triadism	triadisms	triads	triage	triages	trial	trials	triangle	triangles	triangular	triangularly	triangulate	triangulated	triangulates	triangulating	triangulation	triangulations	triangulator	triarchy	triassic	triatomic	triaxial	tribade	tribades	tribadic	tribadism	tribal	tribally	tribe	tribes	tribesman	tribesmen	tribeswoman	tribeswomen	tribulation	tribulations	tribunal	tribunals	tribunate	tribune	tribunes	tribuneship	tributaries	tributary	tribute	tributes	trice	triced	tricentennial	tricentennials	triceps	tricepses	triceratops	triceratopses	trices	trichinella	trichiniasis	trichinoses	trichinosis	trichinous	trichlorethylene	trichlorethylenes	trichloromethane	trichloromethanes	trichroic	trichrome	trick	tricked	tricker	trickeries	trickers	trickery	trickie	trickier	trickiest	trickily	trickiness	tricking	trickingly	trickish	trickishly	trickishness	trickle	trickled	trickles	tricklier	trickling	trickly	tricks	tricksier	tricksiest	trickster	tricksters	tricksy	tricky	tricolor	tricolors	tricorn	tricorne	tricornes	tricorns	tricot	tricots	tricuspid	tricycle	tricycles	trident	tridents	tried	triennial	triennially	trier	triers	tries	trifacial	trifid	trifle	trifled	trifler	triflers	trifles	trifling	triflingly	triflings	trifocal	trifocals	trifold	trifoliate	trifolium	triform	trifurcated	trifurcating	trifurcation	trig	trigamist	trigamy	trigger	triggered	triggering	triggers	triggest	trigging	triglyceride	triglycerides	trigon	trigonal	trigonometric	trigonometrical	trigonometrically	trigonometry	trigons	trigraph	trigraphs	trihedra	trihybrid	trijet	trijets	trilateral	triliteral	trill	trilled	triller	trillers	trilling	trillion	trillions	trillionth	trillionths	trillium	trilliums	trills	trilobal	trilobate	trilobed	trilogies	trilogy	trim	trimaran	trimarans	trimester	trimesters	trimeter	trimly	trimmed	trimmer	trimmers	trimmest	trimming	trimmings	trimness	trimonthly	trimorph	trimorphs	trimotor	trimotors	trims	trinal	trinary	trine	trined	trines	trinidad	trining	trinitarian	trinitarianism	trinitarians	trinities	trinitrotoluene	trinity	trinket	trinketed	trinketing	trinkets	trinodal	trio	triode	triodes	triolet	triolets	trios	trioxide	trioxides	trip	tripart	tripartite	tripe	tripedal	tripes	triphase	triplane	triplanes	triple	tripled	triples	triplet	triplets	triplex	triplexes	triplicate	triplicated	triplicates	triplicating	triplication	triplications	tripling	triploid	triply	tripod	tripodal	tripodic	tripods	tripoli	tripped	tripper	trippers	trippets	tripping	trippings	trips	triptych	triptychs	trireme	triremes	trisaccharide	triscele	trisect	trisected	trisecting	trisection	trisections	trisects	triskaidekaphobe	triskaidekaphobes	triskaidekaphobia	triskeles	tristate	triste	tristezas	trite	tritely	triteness	triter	tritest	triticale	tritium	tritiums	triton	tritone	tritones	tritons	triturable	triturate	triturated	triturates	triturating	trituration	triturator	triturators	triumph	triumphal	triumphant	triumphantly	triumphed	triumphing	triumphs	triumvir	triumviral	triumvirate	triumvirates	triumviri	triumvirs	triune	triunes	triunities	triunity	trivalent	trivalve	trivalves	trivet	trivets	trivia	trivial	trivialities	triviality	trivially	trivium	trochaic	trochaics	troche	trochee	trochees	troches	trochoid	trochoids	trod	trodden	trode	troglodyte	troglodytes	troika	troikas	troilus	trois	trojan	trojans	troll	trolled	troller	trollers	trolley	trolleyed	trolleying	trolleys	trollied	trollies	trolling	trollings	trollop	trollops	trollopy	trolls	trolly	trollying	trombone	trombones	trombonist	trombonists	tromp	trompe	tromped	trompes	tromping	tromps	troop	trooped	trooper	troopers	trooping	troops	troopship	troopships	trop	trope	tropes	trophic	trophied	trophies	trophism	trophy	trophying	tropia	tropic	tropical	tropically	tropics	tropin	tropine	tropins	tropism	tropisms	troposphere	tropospheric	troppo	trot	troth	trothed	trothing	troths	trotlines	trots	trotted	trotter	trotters	trotting	troubadour	troubadours	trouble	troubled	troublemaker	troublemakers	troubler	troublers	troubles	troubleshoot	troubleshooter	troubleshooters	troubleshooting	troubleshoots	troubleshot	troublesome	troublesomely	troubling	troublous	trough	troughs	trounce	trounced	trouncer	trouncers	trounces	trouncing	troupe	trouped	trouper	troupers	troupes	trouping	trouser	trousers	trousseau	trousseaus	trousseaux	trout	troutier	troutiest	trouts	trouty	trove	trover	trovers	troves	trow	trowed	trowel	troweled	troweler	trowelers	troweling	trowelled	trowelling	trowels	trowing	trows	trowsers	troy	troys	truancies	truancy	truant	truanted	truanting	truantries	truantry	truants	truce	truced	truces	trucing	truck	truckage	truckdriver	trucked	trucker	truckers	trucking	truckings	truckle	truckled	truckler	trucklers	truckles	truckling	truckload	truckloads	truckman	truckmaster	truckmen	trucks	truculence	truculency	truculent	truculently	trudge	trudged	trudger	trudgers	trudges	trudging	TRUE	trueblue	trueblues	trueborn	trued	trueing	truelove	trueloves	trueness	truer	trues	truest	truffle	truffled	truffles	truing	truism	truisms	truistic	trull	trulls	truly	truman	trump	trumped	trumperies	trumpery	trumpet	trumpeted	trumpeter	trumpeters	trumpeting	trumpets	trumping	trumps	truncate	truncated	truncates	truncating	truncation	truncations	truncheon	truncheons	trundle	trundled	trundler	trundlers	trundles	trundling	trunk	trunked	trunks	trunkway	trunnels	trunnion	trunnions	truss	trussed	trusser	trussers	trusses	trussing	trussings	trust	trustability	trustable	trustbuster	trustbusting	trusted	trustee	trusteed	trusteeing	trustees	trusteeship	trusteeships	truster	trusters	trustful	trustfully	trustfulness	trustier	trusties	trustiest	trustified	trustifying	trustily	trusting	trusts	trustwoman	trustwomen	trustworthily	trustworthiness	trustworthy	trusty	truth	truthful	truthfully	truthfulness	truthless	truths	try	trying	tryingly	tryout	tryouts	trypsin	tryptic	tryptophane	tryst	trysted	tryster	trysters	trystes	trysting	trysts	tsar	tsardom	tsardoms	tsarevna	tsarevnas	tsarina	tsarinas	tsarism	tsarisms	tsarist	tsarists	tsaritza	tsaritzas	tsars	tsetse	tsetses	tsimmes	tsked	tsking	tsktsked	tsktsking	tsp	tsuba	tsunami	tsunamic	tsunamis	tsuris	tty	tuataras	tub	tuba	tubal	tubas	tubbable	tubbed	tubber	tubbers	tubbier	tubbiest	tubbiness	tubbing	tubby	tube	tubectomies	tubectomy	tubed	tubeless	tuber	tubercle	tubercled	tubercles	tubercular	tuberculin	tuberculoid	tuberculoses	tuberculosis	tuberculous	tuberculously	tuberoid	tuberose	tuberoses	tuberosity	tuberous	tubers	tubes	tubework	tubful	tubifexes	tubiform	tubing	tubings	tubs	tubular	tubularly	tubulate	tubule	tubules	tuck	tuckahoes	tucked	tucker	tuckered	tuckering	tuckers	tucket	tuckets	tucking	tucks	tucson	tudor	tuesday	tuesdays	tufa	tufaceous	tufas	tuff	tuffet	tuffets	tuffs	tuft	tufted	tufter	tufters	tuftier	tuftiest	tuftily	tufting	tufts	tufty	tug	tugboat	tugboats	tugged	tugger	tuggers	tugging	tugs	tuition	tuitions	tularemia	tularemic	tules	tulip	tulips	tulle	tulles	tulsa	tumble	tumbled	tumbledown	tumbler	tumblers	tumbles	tumbleweed	tumbleweeds	tumbling	tumblings	tumbrel	tumbrels	tumbrils	tumefied	tumefies	tumeric	tumescence	tumescent	tumid	tumidity	tummies	tummy	tumor	tumoral	tumorous	tumors	tumour	tumours	tumps	tumult	tumults	tumultuous	tumultuousness	tumultus	tumulus	tumuluses	tun	tuna	tunability	tunable	tunably	tunas	tundra	tundras	tune	tuneable	tuneably	tuned	tuneful	tunefully	tunefulness	tuneless	tunelessly	tuner	tuners	tunes	tuneup	tuneups	tungsten	tungstenic	tungstens	tunic	tunics	tuning	tunings	tunis	tunisia	tunisian	tunisians	tunned	tunnel	tunneled	tunneler	tunnelers	tunneling	tunnelled	tunneller	tunnellers	tunnelling	tunnels	tunney	tunnies	tunning	tunny	tuns	tup	tupelo	tupelos	tupped	tuppence	tuppences	tuppenny	tupping	tups	tuque	tuques	turban	turbaned	turbans	turbeths	turbid	turbidities	turbidity	turbidly	turbidness	turbinate	turbine	turbines	turbit	turbo	turbocar	turbocars	turbocharger	turbofan	turbofans	turbojet	turbojets	turboprop	turboprops	turbos	turbot	turbots	turbulence	turbulency	turbulent	turbulently	turd	turds	tureen	tureens	turf	turfed	turfier	turfing	turfless	turfs	turfy	turgencies	turgescence	turgid	turgidities	turgidity	turgidly	turgors	turk	turkey	turkeys	turkois	turks	turmeric	turmerics	turmoil	turmoiled	turmoiling	turmoils	turn	turnable	turnabout	turnabouts	turnaround	turnarounds	turnbuckle	turnbuckles	turncoat	turncoats	turndown	turndowns	turned	turner	turneries	turners	turnery	turnhall	turning	turnings	turnip	turnips	turnkey	turnkeys	turnoff	turnoffs	turnout	turnouts	turnover	turnovers	turnpike	turnpikes	turns	turnspit	turnspits	turnstile	turnstiles	turntable	turntables	turnup	turnups	turpentine	turpitude	turps	turquoise	turquoises	turret	turreted	turrets	turtle	turtled	turtledove	turtledoves	turtleneck	turtlenecks	turtler	turtlers	turtles	turtling	tusche	tusches	tush	tushed	tushes	tushing	tusk	tusked	tusker	tuskers	tusking	tuskless	tusks	tussle	tussled	tussles	tussling	tussock	tussocks	tussocky	tussuck	tut	tutankhamen	tutee	tutees	tutelage	tutelages	tutelar	tutelaries	tutelary	tutor	tutorage	tutorages	tutored	tutoress	tutoresses	tutorhood	tutorial	tutorials	tutoring	tutors	tutorship	tutoyered	tutrix	tuts	tutted	tutti	tutting	tutu	tutus	tux	tuxedo	tuxedoes	tuxedos	tuxes	tv	twaddle	twaddled	twaddler	twaddlers	twaddles	twaddling	twain	twains	twang	twanged	twangier	twangiest	twanging	twangle	twangled	twangler	twangles	twangs	twangy	twas	twat	twats	twattle	tweak	tweaked	tweakier	tweakiest	tweaking	tweaks	tweaky	tweed	tweedier	tweediest	tweedle	tweedled	tweedles	tweeds	tweedy	tween	tweet	tweeted	tweeter	tweeters	tweeting	tweets	tweeze	tweezed	tweezer	tweezers	tweezes	tweezing	twelfth	twelfths	twelve	twelvemo	twelvemonth	twelvemonths	twelvemos	twelves	twenties	twentieth	twentieths	twenty	twerp	twerps	twice	twiddle	twiddled	twiddler	twiddlers	twiddles	twiddling	twier	twig	twigged	twiggier	twiggiest	twigging	twiggy	twigless	twigs	twilight	twilights	twilit	twill	twilled	twilling	twills	twin	twinborn	twine	twined	twiner	twiners	twines	twinge	twinged	twingeing	twinges	twinging	twinier	twinight	twinighter	twinighters	twining	twinkle	twinkled	twinkler	twinklers	twinkles	twinkling	twinkly	twinned	twinning	twinnings	twins	twinship	twinships	twiny	twirl	twirled	twirler	twirlers	twirlier	twirliest	twirling	twirls	twirly	twirp	twirps	twist	twistable	twisted	twister	twisters	twisting	twistings	twists	twit	twitch	twitched	twitcher	twitchers	twitches	twitchier	twitchiest	twitching	twitchingly	twitchy	twits	twitted	twitter	twittered	twittering	twitters	twittery	twitting	twixt	two	twofer	twofers	twofold	twofolds	twopence	twopences	twopenny	twos	twosome	twosomes	tx	tycoon	tycoons	tying	tyke	tykes	tyler	tymbal	tympan	tympana	tympani	tympanic	tympanies	tympans	tympanum	tympanums	tympany	typal	type	typeable	typebar	typebars	typecase	typecast	typecasting	typecasts	typed	typeface	typefaces	types	typescript	typescripts	typeset	typesets	typesetter	typesetters	typesetting	typewrite	typewriter	typewriters	typewrites	typewriting	typewritten	typewrote	typhoid	typhoidal	typhoids	typhon	typhons	typhoon	typhoons	typhous	typhus	typhuses	typic	typical	typicality	typically	typicalness	typier	typiest	typification	typified	typifier	typifiers	typifies	typify	typifying	typing	typist	typists	typo	typographer	typographers	typographic	typographical	typographically	typographies	typography	typology	typos	tyrannic	tyrannical	tyrannically	tyrannicalness	tyrannies	tyrannis	tyrannize	tyrannized	tyrannizer	tyrannizers	tyrannizes	tyrannizing	tyrannosaur	tyrannosaurs	tyrannosaurus	tyrannosauruses	tyrannous	tyrannously	tyranny	tyrant	tyrants	tyre	tyred	tyres	tyro	tyros	tything	tzar	tzardom	tzardoms	tzarevna	tzarevnas	tzarina	tzarinas	tzarism	tzarisms	tzarist	tzarists	tzaritza	tzaritzas	tzars	tzetze	tzetzes	tzigane	tzimmes	tzitzis	tzuris	uberrima	uberties	ubiquities	ubiquitous	ubiquitously	ubiquity	udder	udders	ufo	ufos	uganda	ugandan	ugandans	ugh	ughs	ugli	uglier	ugliest	uglified	uglifier	uglifiers	uglifies	uglify	uglifying	uglily	ugliness	uglis	ugly	ugsome	uh	uhs	ukase	ukases	uke	ukelele	ukeleles	ukes	ukraine	ukrainian	ukrainians	ukulele	ukuleles	ulcer	ulcerate	ulcerated	ulcerates	ulcerating	ulceration	ulcerations	ulcerative	ulcered	ulcering	ulcerous	ulcers	ullage	ullages	ulna	ulnae	ulnar	ulnas	ulster	ulsters	ult	ulterior	ulteriorly	ultima	ultimacies	ultimacy	ultimas	ultimata	ultimate	ultimately	ultimateness	ultimates	ultimation	ultimatum	ultimatums	ultimo	ultra	ultracentrifuge	ultraconservative	ultraconservatives	ultrafiche	ultrafiches	ultrafiltration	ultrahazardous	ultrahigh	ultraism	ultraist	ultramarine	ultramicroscope	ultramicroscopic	ultramicroscopically	ultramicroscopy	ultramicrotome	ultramodern	ultramundane	ultrared	ultras	ultrasonic	ultrasonically	ultrasonics	ultrasonogram	ultrasonography	ultrasound	ultrastructural	ultrastructure	ultrasuede	ultraviolet	ululate	ululated	ululates	ululating	ululation	ululations	ulva	ulvas	ulysses	umbel	umbeled	umbellate	umbels	umber	umbered	umbers	umbilical	umbilici	umbilicus	umbilicuses	umbles	umbra	umbrae	umbrage	umbrageous	umbrages	umbral	umbras	umbrella	umbrellaed	umbrellas	umiak	umiaks	umlaut	umlauted	umlauting	umlauts	ump	umped	umping	umpire	umpired	umpires	umpireship	umpiring	umps	umpteen	umpteenth	umteenth	un	unabashed	unabashedly	unabated	unabating	unabbreviated	unable	unabridged	unabsentmindedness	unabsolved	unabsorbed	unabsorbent	unacademic	unaccented	unaccentuated	unacceptable	unacceptably	unacceptance	unaccepted	unaccessible	unaccidental	unacclaimate	unacclaimed	unacclimated	unacclimatized	unaccommodating	unaccompanied	unaccomplished	unaccountability	unaccountable	unaccountably	unaccounted	unaccredited	unaccustomed	unacknowledged	unacknowledging	unacquainted	unactionable	unactuated	unadapted	unaddressed	unadjourned	unadjudicated	unadjustable	unadjusted	unadorned	unadulterate	unadulterated	unadvantageous	unadventurous	unadvertised	unadvisable	unadvised	unadvisedly	unaesthetic	unaffected	unaffectedly	unaffiliated	unafraid	unaged	unaging	unaided	unaimed	unaired	unalarmed	unalarming	unalienable	unalienated	unaligned	unalike	unallayed	unalleviated	unallied	unallowable	unalloyed	unalphabetized	unalterable	unalterably	unaltered	unambidextrousness	unambiguous	unambiguously	unambitious	unamortized	unamplified	unamused	unamusing	unanimated	unanimities	unanimity	unanimous	unanimously	unannounced	unanswerable	unanswered	unanticipated	unapologetic	unapologetically	unapparent	unappealing	unappeasable	unappeased	unappetizing	unappetizingly	unapplicable	unapplied	unappointed	unapportioned	unappreciated	unappreciative	unapprehensive	unapproachable	unappropriated	unapproved	unapproving	unapt	unarm	unarmed	unarmored	unarms	unarrested	unartful	unartfully	unartfulness	unarticulate	unarticulated	unarticulately	unartistic	unary	unascertainable	unashamed	unasked	unaspirated	unaspiring	unassailable	unassailably	unassertive	unassessed	unassigned	unassimilated	unassisted	unassorted	unassuming	unassumingly	unassured	unattached	unattackable	unattainable	unattempted	unattended	unattested	unattracted	unattractive	unauspicious	unauthentic	unauthenticated	unauthorized	unavailability	unavailable	unavailing	unavailingly	unavenged	unavoidability	unavoidable	unavoidableness	unavoidably	unavowed	unawaked	unawakened	unaware	unawareness	unawares	unawed	unbacked	unbailable	unbaked	unbalance	unbalanced	unbalancing	unbaptized	unbar	unbarred	unbarring	unbars	unbear	unbearable	unbearably	unbearing	unbeatable	unbeaten	unbecoming	unbecomingly	unbefitting	unbeholden	unbeknown	unbeknownst	unbelief	unbeliefs	unbelievable	unbelievably	unbeliever	unbelievers	unbelieving	unbeloved	unbend	unbendable	unbended	unbending	unbends	unbent	unbiased	unbiasedly	unbid	unbidden	unbigoted	unbind	unbinding	unbinds	unbleached	unblemished	unblessed	unblessedness	unblinking	unblock	unblocked	unblocking	unblocks	unblushing	unblushingly	unbodied	unbolt	unbolted	unbolting	unbolts	unborn	unbosom	unbosomed	unbosoming	unbosoms	unbound	unbounded	unboundedly	unbowed	unbox	unbraiding	unbranded	unbreakable	unbred	unbribable	unbridgeable	unbridged	unbridle	unbridled	unbridledly	unbridles	unbroken	unbrotherly	unbruised	unbrushed	unbuckle	unbuckled	unbuckles	unbuckling	unbudgeted	unbudging	unbuilding	unburden	unburdened	unburdening	unburdens	unburied	unburned	unburnt	unbutton	unbuttoned	unbuttoning	unbuttons	uncage	uncanceled	uncancelled	uncannier	uncanniest	uncannily	uncanny	uncap	uncapitalized	uncapped	uncapping	uncaps	uncaring	uncarpeted	uncase	uncashed	uncaught	unceasing	unceasingly	uncelebrated	uncensored	uncensured	unceremonious	unceremoniously	unceremoniousness	uncertain	uncertainly	uncertainties	uncertainty	uncertified	unchain	unchained	unchaining	unchains	unchallengeable	unchallenged	unchangeable	unchanged	unchanging	unchaperoned	uncharacteristic	uncharged	uncharges	uncharging	uncharitable	uncharitableness	uncharitably	uncharted	unchaste	unchastely	unchastened	unchasteness	unchastised	unchastities	unchastity	unchecked	uncheerful	uncheerfully	uncherished	unchilled	unchivalrous	unchosen	unchristened	unchristian	unchurched	uncial	uncials	unciforms	uncircumcised	uncircumstantial	uncircumstantialy	uncivil	uncivilized	uncivilly	unclad	unclaimed	unclamped	unclamps	unclarified	unclasp	unclasped	unclasping	unclasps	unclassifiable	unclassified	uncle	unclean	uncleaned	uncleanliness	uncleanly	uncleanness	unclear	uncleared	unclearer	unclehood	unclench	unclenched	unclenches	unclenching	unclerical	uncles	uncloak	uncloaked	uncloaking	uncloaks	unclog	unclogged	unclogging	unclogs	unclose	unclosed	uncloses	unclosing	unclothe	unclothed	unclothes	unclothing	unclouded	unclouding	uncluttered	unco	uncoagulated	uncoated	uncoffined	uncoil	uncoiled	uncoiling	uncoils	uncollected	uncolored	uncombed	uncombined	uncomfortable	uncomfortableness	uncomfortably	uncomforted	uncomforting	uncommendable	uncommercial	uncommitted	uncommon	uncommoner	uncommonly	uncommonness	uncommunicative	uncompartmentalize	uncompartmentalized	uncompartmentalizes	uncompassionate	uncompensated	uncompetitive	uncomplaining	uncomplainingly	uncompleted	uncompliant	uncomplicated	uncomplimentary	uncompounded	uncomprehended	uncomprehending	uncomprehendingly	uncomprehened	uncompressed	uncompromising	uncompromisingly	unconcealed	unconceded	unconcern	unconcerned	unconcernedly	unconcluded	uncondensed	unconditional	unconditionality	unconditionally	unconditioned	uncondoned	unconfessed	unconfined	unconfirmed	unconformable	unconforming	unconfused	uncongenial	unconnected	unconquerable	unconquerably	unconquered	unconscientious	unconscientiously	unconscionable	unconscionably	unconscious	unconsciously	unconsciousness	unconsecrated	unconsenting	unconsidered	unconsoled	unconsolidated	unconstitutional	unconstitutionality	unconstitutionally	unconstrained	unconstricted	unconsumed	unconsummated	uncontaminated	uncontestable	uncontested	uncontradicted	uncontrite	uncontrollable	uncontrollably	uncontrolled	uncontrovertible	unconventional	unconventionality	unconventionalized	unconventionalizes	unconventionally	unconversant	unconverted	unconvertible	unconvinced	unconvincing	unconvincingly	uncooked	uncool	uncooperative	uncoordinated	uncordial	uncork	uncorked	uncorking	uncorks	uncorrected	uncorroborated	uncorrupted	uncos	uncountable	uncounted	uncouple	uncoupled	uncouples	uncoupling	uncourageous	uncourteous	uncouth	uncouthness	uncover	uncovered	uncovering	uncovers	uncrate	uncrated	uncrates	uncrating	uncreated	uncreates	uncreating	uncritical	uncritically	uncross	uncrossed	uncrosses	uncrossing	uncrowded	uncrowned	uncrowning	uncrystallized	unction	unctions	unctuosity	unctuous	unctuously	unctuousness	uncultivated	uncultured	uncurbed	uncured	uncurious	uncurl	uncurled	uncurling	uncurls	uncurtained	uncustomary	uncut	undamaged	undamped	undated	undaunted	undauntedly	undebatable	undecayed	undeceive	undeceived	undeceives	undeceiving	undecidable	undecided	undecipherable	undeclared	undecorated	undefeated	undefended	undefensible	undefiled	undefinable	undefinably	undefined	undeliverable	undelivered	undemanding	undemocratic	undemocratically	undemonstrable	undemonstrably	undemonstrative	undemonstratively	undemonstrativeness	undeniable	undeniably	undenied	undenominational	undependable	under	underachieve	underachieved	underachiever	underachievers	underachieves	underachieving	underact	underacted	underacting	underacts	underage	underages	underarm	underarms	underassessed	underassessment	underate	underbellies	underbelly	underbid	underbidder	underbidders	underbidding	underbids	underbred	underbrush	undercapitalize	undercapitalized	undercarriage	undercarriages	undercharge	undercharged	undercharges	undercharging	underclad	underclassman	underclassmen	underclerk	underclerks	underclothed	underclothes	underclothing	undercoat	undercoated	undercoating	undercoatings	undercoats	undercook	undercooked	undercooking	undercooks	undercover	undercurrent	undercurrents	undercut	undercuts	undercutting	underdeveloped	underdevelopment	underdoes	underdog	underdogs	underdone	underdrawers	underdress	underdressed	underdresses	underdressing	undereat	undereducated	underemphasize	underemphasized	underemphasizes	underemphasizing	underemployed	underemployment	underestimate	underestimated	underestimates	underestimating	underestimation	underestimations	underexpose	underexposed	underexposes	underexposing	underexposure	underexposures	underfed	underfeed	underfeeding	underfeeds	underfinance	underfinanced	underfinances	underfinancing	underflow	underfoot	underfur	undergarment	undergarments	undergird	undergirded	undergirding	undergirds	undergo	undergoes	undergoing	undergone	undergraduate	undergraduates	underground	undergrounder	undergrounds	undergrowth	underhand	underhanded	underhandedly	underhandedness	underlaid	underlain	underlaps	underlay	underlayer	underlayers	underlays	underlie	underlier	underlies	underline	underlined	underlines	underling	underlings	underlining	underlip	underlips	underlying	undermanned	undermentioned	undermine	undermined	underminer	undermines	undermining	undermost	underneath	undernourished	undernourishment	underofficial	underofficials	underpaid	underpants	underpart	underparts	underpass	underpasses	underpay	underpaying	underpayment	underpays	underpeopled	underpin	underpinned	underpinning	underpinnings	underpins	underplay	underplayed	underplaying	underplays	underpopulated	underpowered	underprice	underpriced	underprices	underpricing	underprivileged	underproduce	underproduced	underproduces	underproducing	underproduction	underran	underrate	underrated	underrates	underrating	underripened	underrun	underrunning	underruns	underscore	underscored	underscores	underscoring	undersea	underseas	undersecretary	undersell	underselling	undersells	underset	undersexed	undersheriff	undershirt	undershirts	undershorts	undershot	underside	undersides	undersign	undersigned	undersize	undersized	underskirt	underskirts	underslung	undersold	underspend	underspending	underspends	underspent	understaffed	understand	understandable	understandably	understanding	understandingly	understandings	understands	understate	understated	understatement	understatements	understates	understating	understood	understructure	understructures	understudied	understudies	understudy	understudying	undersupplied	undersupplies	undersupply	undersupplying	undersurface	undertake	undertaken	undertaker	undertakers	undertakes	undertaking	undertakings	underthings	undertone	undertones	undertook	undertow	undertows	undertrained	undervalue	undervalued	undervalues	undervaluing	underwaist	underwaists	underwater	underway	underwear	underweight	underwent	underwind	underwinding	underwinds	underworld	underwound	underwrite	underwriter	underwriters	underwrites	underwriting	underwritten	underwrote	undescribable	undescribably	undeserved	undeserving	undesigned	undesigning	undesirability	undesirable	undesired	undestroyed	undetachable	undetached	undetectable	undetected	undeterminable	undetermined	undeterred	undeveloped	undeviating	undeviatingly	undiagnosed	undid	undies	undifferentiated	undiffused	undigested	undignified	undiluted	undiminished	undimmed	undine	undines	undiplomatic	undirected	undiscerned	undiscernible	undiscernibly	undiscerning	undischarged	undisciplinable	undisciplined	undisclosed	undiscouraged	undiscoverable	undiscovered	undiscriminating	undiscriminatingly	undisguised	undismayed	undispelled	undisplayed	undisposed	undisproved	undisputable	undisputed	undissolved	undistilled	undistinguishable	undistinguished	undistinguishing	undistressed	undistributed	undisturbed	undiversified	undivided	undivulged	undo	undocking	undocks	undocumented	undoer	undoers	undoes	undogmatic	undoing	undoings	undomesticated	undone	undoubted	undoubtedly	undoubting	undramatic	undrape	undraped	undrapes	undraping	undreamed	undreamt	undress	undressed	undresses	undressing	undrest	undrinkable	undue	undulance	undulant	undulate	undulated	undulates	undulating	undulation	undulations	undulatory	unduly	undutiful	undutifully	undy	undyed	undying	undyingly	unearned	unearth	unearthed	unearthing	unearthly	unearths	unease	uneasier	uneasiest	uneasily	uneasiness	uneasy	uneatable	uneated	uneaten	uneconomic	uneconomical	uneconomically	unedible	unedifying	unedited	uneducable	uneducated	unemancipated	unembarrassed	unembellished	unemotional	unemotionally	unemphatic	unemployability	unemployable	unemployed	unemployment	unenclosed	unencumbered	unendangered	unended	unending	unendingly	unendorsed	unendurable	unendurably	unenforceable	unenforced	unenfranchised	unengaged	unenjoyable	unenlightened	unenriched	unenrolled	unentangled	unentered	unenterprising	unentertaining	unenthusiastic	unenthusiastically	unenviable	unenvious	unenviously	unequal	unequaled	unequalled	unequally	unequals	unequipped	unequivocal	unequivocally	unequivocalness	unerased	unerring	unerringly	unescapable	unescapably	unesco	unescorted	unessential	unestablished	unesthetic	unethical	unethically	uneven	unevener	unevenest	unevenly	unevenness	uneventful	uneventfully	unexaggerated	unexampled	unexcavated	unexcelled	unexceptionable	unexceptionably	unexceptional	unexchangeable	unexcited	unexciting	unexcusable	unexcusably	unexcused	unexecuted	unexercised	unexpected	unexpectedly	unexpectedness	unexpended	unexperienced	unexpired	unexplainable	unexplainably	unexplained	unexplicit	unexploded	unexploited	unexplored	unexposed	unexpressed	unexpressive	unexpurgated	unextended	unextinguished	unextravagant	unfaded	unfading	unfailing	unfailingly	unfailingness	unfair	unfairer	unfairest	unfairly	unfairness	unfaithful	unfaithfully	unfaithfulness	unfaltering	unfalteringly	unfamiliar	unfamiliarity	unfamiliarly	unfashionable	unfashionably	unfasten	unfastened	unfastening	unfastens	unfathomable	unfathomed	unfavorable	unfavorably	unfavored	unfazed	unfeared	unfearing	unfeasible	unfed	unfederated	unfeeling	unfeelingly	unfeigned	unfelt	unfeminine	unfenced	unfences	unfermented	unfertile	unfertilized	unfestive	unfetter	unfettered	unfetters	unfilial	unfilled	unfiltered	unfinished	unfit	unfitly	unfitness	unfits	unfitted	unfitting	unfittingly	unfix	unfixed	unfixes	unfixing	unflagging	unflaggingly	unflappability	unflappable	unflappably	unflattering	unflavored	unfledged	unflinching	unflinchingly	unfocused	unfocussed	unfold	unfolded	unfolder	unfolders	unfolding	unfolds	unforbidded	unforbidden	unforbidding	unforced	unforeseeable	unforeseen	unforested	unforetold	unforgettable	unforgettably	unforgivable	unforgivably	unforgiven	unforgiving	unforgotten	unformatted	unformed	unformulated	unforsaken	unforseen	unfortified	unfortunate	unfortunately	unfortunateness	unfortunates	unfought	unfounded	unframed	unfree	unfreeze	unfreezes	unfreezing	unfrequented	unfriendliness	unfriendly	unfrock	unfrocked	unfrocking	unfrocks	unfroze	unfrozen	unfruitful	unfulfilled	unfunny	unfurl	unfurled	unfurling	unfurls	unfurnished	ungainlier	ungainliness	ungainly	ungallant	ungallantly	ungathered	ungenerous	ungenial	ungenially	ungenteel	ungentle	ungentlemanly	ungently	unglazed	unglue	ungodlier	ungodliness	ungodly	ungot	ungovernability	ungovernable	ungoverned	ungraceful	ungracefully	ungracious	ungraciously	ungraciousness	ungraded	ungrammatical	ungrammatically	ungrateful	ungratefully	ungratefulness	ungratifying	ungrounded	ungrudging	ungrudgingly	unguarded	unguent	unguentary	unguents	unguided	unguiltily	ungulate	ungulates	unhabituated	unhackneyed	unhallowed	unhampered	unhand	unhanded	unhandicapped	unhandier	unhandiest	unhanding	unhands	unhandy	unhanged	unhappier	unhappiest	unhappily	unhappiness	unhappy	unhardened	unharmed	unharmful	unharmonious	unharness	unharnessed	unharnesses	unharnessing	unharvested	unhat	unhatched	unhats	unhatted	unhealed	unhealthful	unhealthier	unhealthiest	unhealthiness	unhealthy	unheard	unheated	unheeded	unheedful	unheedfully	unheeding	unhelm	unhelpful	unheralded	unheroic	unhesitating	unhesitatingly	unhindered	unhinge	unhinged	unhinges	unhinging	unhip	unhitch	unhitched	unhitches	unhitching	unholier	unholiest	unholily	unholiness	unholy	unhonored	unhooded	unhook	unhooked	unhooking	unhooks	unhorse	unhorsed	unhorses	unhorsing	unhoused	unhuman	unhung	unhurried	unhurriedly	unhurt	unhygienic	unhyphenated	uniaxial	unicameral	unicamerally	unicef	unicellular	unicolor	unicorn	unicorns	unicycle	unicycles	unicyclist	unidentifiable	unidentified	unidiomatic	unidiomatically	unidirectional	unific	unification	unified	unifier	unifiers	unifies	uniform	uniformed	uniformer	uniformest	uniforming	uniformities	uniformity	uniformly	uniformness	uniforms	unify	unifying	unilateral	unilaterally	unilluminated	unillustrated	unimaginable	unimaginably	unimaginative	unimaginatively	unimpaired	unimpassioned	unimpeachability	unimpeachable	unimpeachably	unimpeached	unimpeded	unimportance	unimportant	unimposing	unimpressed	unimpressible	unimpressive	unimpressively	unimproved	uninclosed	unincorporated	unincumbered	unindemnified	unindorsed	uninfected	uninflammable	uninfluenced	uninfluential	uninformative	uninformed	uninhabitable	uninhabited	uninhibited	uninhibitedly	uninitiated	uninjured	uninspired	uninspiring	uninspiringly	uninstructed	uninsurable	uninsured	unintellectual	unintelligent	unintelligently	unintelligible	unintelligibly	unintended	unintendedly	unintentional	unintentionally	uninterested	uninterestedly	uninteresting	uninterestingly	uninterrupted	uninterruptedly	unintoxicated	uninvested	uninvited	uninviting	uninvitingly	uninvolved	union	unionism	unionisms	unionist	unionistic	unionists	unionization	unionize	unionized	unionizes	unionizing	unions	unipod	unipolar	unique	uniquely	uniqueness	uniquer	uniques	uniquest	unironed	unisex	unisexes	unisexual	unison	unisonal	unisons	unit	unitarian	unitarianism	unitarians	unitary	unite	united	unitedly	uniter	uniters	unites	unities	uniting	unitive	unitize	unitized	unitizes	unitizing	units	unity	univ	univalent	univalve	univalves	universal	universalism	universalist	universalists	universality	universalization	universalize	universalized	universalizes	universalizing	universally	universals	universe	universes	universities	university	univocal	univocals	unix	unjoined	unjointed	unjudicial	unjudicially	unjust	unjustifiable	unjustifiably	unjustification	unjustified	unjustly	unjustness	unkempt	unkennel	unkenneled	unkennels	unkept	unkind	unkinder	unkindest	unkindlier	unkindly	unkindness	unkingly	unkissed	unknits	unknitting	unknot	unknots	unknotted	unknotting	unknowable	unknowing	unknowingly	unknown	unknowns	unkosher	unlabeled	unlabelled	unlabored	unlaboured	unlace	unlaced	unlaces	unlacing	unlading	unlamented	unlanded	unlashing	unlatch	unlatched	unlatches	unlatching	unlaw	unlawful	unlawfully	unlawfulness	unlay	unlaying	unleaded	unlearn	unlearned	unlearning	unlearns	unlearnt	unleash	unleashed	unleashes	unleashing	unleavened	unled	unless	unlet	unlettable	unlettered	unleveling	unlevelled	unlicensed	unlifelike	unlighted	unlikable	unlike	unlikelier	unlikeliest	unlikelihood	unlikeliness	unlikely	unlikeness	unlimber	unlimbered	unlimbering	unlimbers	unlimited	unlimitedness	unlined	unlink	unlinked	unlinking	unlinks	unliquidated	unlisted	unlit	unlivable	unliveable	unliveries	unload	unloaded	unloader	unloaders	unloading	unloads	unlocated	unlock	unlocked	unlocking	unlocks	unlooked	unloose	unloosed	unloosen	unloosened	unloosening	unloosens	unlooses	unloosing	unlovable	unloved	unlovelier	unlovely	unloving	unlubricated	unluckier	unluckiest	unluckily	unlucky	unmade	unmagnified	unmailable	unmaintainable	unmake	unman	unmanageable	unmanageably	unmanful	unmanliness	unmanly	unmanned	unmannerliness	unmannerly	unmanning	unmans	unmanufactured	unmapped	unmarked	unmarketable	unmarred	unmarriageable	unmarried	unmarrying	unmask	unmasked	unmasker	unmaskers	unmasking	unmasks	unmastered	unmatched	unmeaning	unmeant	unmeasured	unmechanical	unmedicated	unmelodious	unmelted	unmemorized	unmended	unmentionable	unmentionables	unmentioned	unmerchantable	unmerciful	unmercifully	unmerged	unmerited	unmet	unmethodical	unmilitary	unmindful	unmingled	unmingling	unmistakable	unmistakably	unmistaken	unmitering	unmitigated	unmitigatedly	unmixed	unmixt	unmodified	unmold	unmolded	unmolested	unmollified	unmoored	unmooring	unmoral	unmorality	unmortgaged	unmotivated	unmounted	unmourned	unmovable	unmoved	unmoving	unmown	unmuffle	unmuffled	unmuffles	unmuffling	unmusical	unmuzzle	unmuzzled	unmuzzles	unmuzzling	unnameable	unnamed	unnatural	unnaturally	unnaturalness	unnavigable	unnecessarily	unnecessariness	unnecessary	unneeded	unneedful	unneedfully	unnegotiable	unneighborly	unnerve	unnerved	unnerves	unnerving	unnoted	unnoticeable	unnoticeably	unnoticed	unnourished	unnumbered	unobjectionable	unobjectionably	unobliged	unobliging	unobnoxious	unobscured	unobservant	unobserved	unobserving	unobstructed	unobtainable	unobtruding	unobtrusive	unobtrusively	unobtrusiveness	unoccupied	unoffended	unoffending	unoffensive	unoffensively	unoffered	unofficial	unofficially	unofficiously	unopened	unopposed	unoppressed	unordained	unorganized	unoriginal	unornamented	unorthodox	unorthodoxly	unostentatious	unostentatiously	unowned	unpacified	unpack	unpacked	unpacker	unpackers	unpacking	unpacks	unpaid	unpainted	unpaired	unpalatable	unpalatably	unparalleled	unpardonable	unpardonably	unpardoned	unpasteurized	unpatentable	unpatented	unpatriotic	unpatriotically	unpaved	unpaying	unpedigreed	unpeg	unpen	unpenetrated	unpenned	unpens	unpent	unpeople	unpeopled	unpeoples	unpeopling	unperceived	unperceiving	unperceptive	unperceptively	unperfected	unperformed	unperjured	unperson	unpersons	unpersuaded	unpersuasive	unpersuasively	unperturbable	unperturbably	unperturbed	unphotographic	unpicked	unpile	unpiled	unpiles	unpiling	unpin	unpinned	unpinning	unpins	unpited	unpitied	unpitying	unpityingly	unplaced	unplaiting	unplanned	unplanted	unplayable	unplayed	unpleasant	unpleasantly	unpleasantness	unpleased	unpleasing	unpledged	unplowed	unplug	unplugged	unplugging	unplugs	unplumbed	unpoetic	unpoetical	unpoetically	unpointed	unpoised	unpolarized	unpolished	unpolitic	unpolitical	unpolled	unpolluted	unpopular	unpopularity	unpopularly	unpopulated	unposed	unpossessive	unpossessively	unpracticable	unpractical	unpracticed	unprecedented	unpredictability	unpredictabilness	unpredictable	unpredictably	unpredicted	unprejudiced	unpremeditated	unprepared	unpreparedness	unprepossessing	unprescribed	unpresentable	unpresentably	unpreserved	unpressed	unpresumptuous	unpretending	unpretentious	unpretentiously	unpretentiousness	unpreventable	unpriced	unprimed	unprincipled	unprintable	unprized	unprocessed	unproclaimed	unprocurable	unproductive	unproductively	unproductiveness	unprofessed	unprofessional	unprofessionally	unprofitable	unprofitably	unprogressive	unprogressively	unprohibited	unprolific	unpromising	unpromisingly	unprompted	unpronounceable	unpronounced	unpropitious	unpropitiously	unproportionate	unproportionately	unproposed	unprotected	unprotesting	unprotestingly	unprovable	unproved	unproven	unprovided	unprovoked	unpublished	unpuckered	unpunctual	unpunished	unpurified	unpuzzling	unqualified	unqualifiedly	unquenchable	unquenched	unquestionable	unquestionably	unquestioned	unquestioning	unquestioningly	unquiet	unquieter	unquietest	unquiets	unquotable	unquote	unquoted	unquotes	unraised	unrated	unravel	unraveled	unraveling	unravelled	unravelling	unravels	unread	unreadable	unreadier	unreadiest	unready	unreal	unrealistic	unrealistically	unreality	unrealized	unreally	unreason	unreasonable	unreasonableness	unreasonably	unreasoned	unreasoning	unrebuked	unreceptive	unreceptively	unreckoned	unreclaimed	unrecognizable	unrecognizably	unrecognized	unrecommended	unrecompensed	unreconcilable	unreconcilably	unreconciled	unreconstructed	unrecorded	unrecoverable	unrectified	unredeemed	unreel	unreeled	unreeler	unreelers	unreeling	unreels	unrefined	unreflecting	unreflectingly	unreflective	unreformed	unrefreshed	unregenerate	unregimented	unregistered	unregulated	unrehearsed	unrelated	unrelenting	unrelentingly	unreliable	unreliably	unrelieved	unrelinquished	unremembered	unremitted	unremitting	unremittingly	unremorseful	unremorsefully	unremovable	unremoved	unremunerated	unremunerative	unrenewed	unrentable	unrented	unrepaid	unrepealed	unrepentant	unrepenting	unrepentingly	unreplaceable	unreplaced	unreported	unrepresentative	unrepresented	unrepressed	unreprieved	unreprimanded	unreproved	unrequitable	unrequited	unresentful	unresentfully	unreserved	unreservedly	unresigned	unresistant	unresisting	unresolved	unrespectful	unrespectfully	unresponsive	unresponsively	unresponsiveness	unrest	unrested	unrestored	unrestrained	unrestrainedly	unrestricted	unrestrictedly	unrests	unretracted	unreturned	unrevealed	unrevenged	unrevised	unrevoked	unrewarded	unrewarding	unrhymed	unrhythmic	unriddle	unriddling	unrig	unrighteous	unrighteously	unrighteousness	unrightful	unrip	unripe	unripely	unripened	unriper	unripest	unrisen	unrivaled	unrivalled	unrobe	unrobed	unrobes	unrobing	unroll	unrolled	unrolling	unrolls	unromantic	unromantically	unroof	unroofed	unroofing	unroofs	unrounding	unruffled	unrule	unruled	unrulier	unruliest	unruliness	unruly	unsaddle	unsaddled	unsaddles	unsaddling	unsafe	unsafely	unsafeties	unsafety	unsaid	unsalability	unsalable	unsalaried	unsalted	unsanctified	unsanctioned	unsanitary	unsatiable	unsatiably	unsatisfactorily	unsatisfactory	unsatisfiable	unsatisfied	unsatisfying	unsaturate	unsaturated	unsaturates	unsaved	unsavoriness	unsavory	unsay	unsays	unscaled	unscarred	unscathed	unscented	unscheduled	unscholarly	unschooled	unscientific	unscientifically	unscramble	unscrambled	unscrambles	unscrambling	unscratched	unscreened	unscrew	unscrewed	unscrewing	unscrews	unscriptural	unscrupulous	unscrupulously	unscrupulousness	unseal	unsealed	unsealing	unseals	unseaming	unseams	unseasonable	unseasonably	unseasoned	unseat	unseated	unseating	unseats	unseaworthiness	unseaworthy	unsecluded	unsecured	unseduced	unseeing	unseeingly	unseemlier	unseemly	unseen	unsegmented	unsegregated	unselective	unselfconscious	unselfish	unselfishly	unselfishness	unsensible	unsensitive	unsent	unsentimental	unsentimentally	unserved	unserviceable	unserviceably	unset	unsettle	unsettled	unsettlement	unsettles	unsettling	unsew	unsex	unsexing	unsexual	unshackle	unshackled	unshackles	unshackling	unshaded	unshakable	unshakably	unshaken	unshamed	unshapely	unshared	unshaved	unshaven	unsheathe	unsheathed	unsheathes	unsheathing	unshed	unshelled	unshelling	unsheltered	unshielded	unshifting	unship	unshipped	unshipping	unships	unshod	unshorn	unshrinkable	unshut	unsifted	unsighted	unsighting	unsightliness	unsightly	unsigned	unsilenced	unsinful	unsinkable	unskilled	unskillful	unskillfully	unskillfulness	unslaked	unsling	unslinging	unslings	unslung	unsmiling	unsmilingly	unsnap	unsnapped	unsnapping	unsnaps	unsnarl	unsnarled	unsnarling	unsnarls	unsociable	unsociably	unsocial	unsocially	unsoiled	unsold	unsolder	unsoldered	unsolders	unsolicited	unsolicitous	unsolvable	unsolved	unsoothed	unsophisticated	unsophisticatedly	unsorted	unsought	unsound	unsoundest	unsoundly	unsoundness	unsparing	unsparingly	unsparingness	unspeakable	unspeakably	unspeaking	unspecialized	unspecific	unspecifically	unspecified	unspectacular	unspent	unsphering	unspiritual	unspoiled	unspoilt	unspoken	unsportsmanlike	unspotted	unsprung	unstable	unstableness	unstabler	unstablest	unstably	unstack	unstacked	unstacking	unstacks	unstained	unstamped	unstandardized	unstapled	unstarched	unstated	unstates	unsteadier	unsteadies	unsteadiest	unsteadily	unsteadiness	unsteady	unsteeling	unstemmed	unstepping	unsterile	unsterilized	unsticking	unsticks	unstinted	unstirred	unstop	unstoppable	unstopped	unstopping	unstops	unstrained	unstrap	unstrapped	unstraps	unstressed	unstresses	unstring	unstructured	unstrung	unstuck	unstudied	unsubdued	unsubmissive	unsubstantial	unsubstantially	unsubstantiated	unsubtle	unsubtly	unsuccessful	unsuccessfully	unsuccessfulness	unsuggestive	unsuitability	unsuitable	unsuitableness	unsuitably	unsuited	unsullied	unsung	unsupervised	unsupported	unsupportedly	unsuppressed	unsuppressible	unsure	unsurely	unsureness	unsurmountable	unsurmountably	unsurpassable	unsurpassably	unsurpassed	unsurprised	unsurveyed	unsusceptible	unsusceptibly	unsuspected	unsuspecting	unsuspectingly	unsuspicious	unsuspiciously	unsustainable	unsustained	unswathe	unswathing	unswayed	unswearing	unsweetened	unswept	unswerving	unswervingly	unsymmetrical	unsymmetrically	unsympathetic	unsympathetically	unsystematic	unsystematical	unsystematically	untactful	untactfully	untainted	untalented	untamed	untangle	untangled	untangles	untangling	untanned	untapped	untarnished	untasted	untasteful	untastefully	untaught	untaxed	unteachable	unteaching	untempted	untempting	untenable	untenanted	untended	unterminated	unterrified	untested	untether	untethered	untethers	unthankful	unthawed	unthinkable	unthinkably	unthinking	unthought	unthoughtful	unthoughtfully	unthreaded	unthriftily	unthrifty	unthroning	untidied	untidier	untidies	untidiest	untidily	untidiness	untidy	untidying	untie	untied	unties	until	untillable	untilled	untimelier	untimeliness	untimely	untired	untiring	untiringly	untitled	unto	untold	untouchable	untouchably	untouched	untoward	untraceable	untraced	untractable	untrained	untrammeled	untrammelled	untranscendentally	untransferable	untransferred	untransformed	untranslatable	untranslated	untraveled	untravelled	untraversed	untreading	untreated	untried	untrimmed	untrimming	untrod	untrodden	untroubled	untrue	untruer	untruest	untruly	untrussing	untrustful	untrusting	untrustworthy	untrusty	untruth	untruthful	untruthfulness	untruths	untucked	unturned	untutored	untwist	untwisted	untwisting	untwists	untying	untypical	untypically	unum	unusable	unused	unusual	unusually	unusualness	unutilized	unutterable	unutterably	unuttered	unvaccinated	unvanquishable	unvanquished	unvaried	unvarnished	unvarying	unvaryingly	unveil	unveiled	unveiling	unveils	unvendible	unventilated	unventuresome	unverifiable	unverifiably	unverified	unversed	unvexed	unvisited	unvoiced	unvoices	unwanted	unwarier	unwariest	unwarily	unwariness	unwarmed	unwarned	unwarrantable	unwarranted	unwary	unwashed	unwatched	unwavering	unwaveringly	unwaxed	unweakened	unweaned	unwearable	unwearably	unweary	unwearying	unweave	unweaves	unweaving	unwed	unweeded	unweighted	unwelcome	unwelded	unwell	unwept	unwholesome	unwholesomely	unwholesomeness	unwieldier	unwieldiness	unwieldy	unwifely	unwilled	unwilling	unwillingly	unwillingness	unwind	unwinder	unwinders	unwinding	unwinds	unwise	unwisely	unwiser	unwisest	unwished	unwishes	unwit	unwitnessed	unwitted	unwitting	unwittingly	unwomanly	unwon	unwonted	unwontedly	unworkable	unworkably	unworked	unworldly	unworn	unworried	unworthier	unworthies	unworthily	unworthiness	unworthy	unwound	unwove	unwoven	unwrap	unwrapped	unwrapping	unwraps	unwrinkle	unwrinkled	unwrinkles	unwrinkling	unwritten	unyielding	unyieldingly	unyoke	unyoked	unyokes	unyoking	unzealous	unzealously	unzip	unzipped	unzipping	unzips	up	upbearer	upbeat	upbeats	upboiling	upbraid	upbraided	upbraider	upbraiders	upbraiding	upbraids	upbringing	upchuck	upchucked	upchucking	upchucks	upcoiling	upcoming	upcountry	upcurve	upcurved	upcurves	upcurving	updatable	update	updated	updater	updaters	updates	updating	updraft	updrafts	upend	upended	upending	upends	upgrade	upgraded	upgrades	upgrading	upheaval	upheavals	upheave	upheaved	upheaver	upheavers	upheaves	upheaving	upheld	uphill	uphills	uphold	upholder	upholders	upholding	upholds	upholster	upholstered	upholsterer	upholsterers	upholsteries	upholstering	upholsters	upholstery	upkeep	upkeeps	upland	uplander	uplanders	uplands	upleaping	uplift	uplifted	uplifter	uplifters	uplifting	upliftment	uplifts	uplink	uplinked	uplinking	uplinks	upload	uploadable	uploaded	uploading	uploads	upmost	upon	upped	upper	uppercase	upperclassman	upperclassmen	uppercut	uppercuts	uppermost	uppers	upping	uppish	uppity	upraise	upraised	upraiser	upraisers	upraises	upraising	upreached	upreaches	uprear	upreared	uprearing	uprears	upright	uprighted	uprightly	uprightness	uprights	uprise	uprisen	upriser	uprisers	uprises	uprising	uprisings	upriver	uprivers	uproar	uproarious	uproariously	uproariousness	uproars	uproot	uprootals	uprooted	uprooter	uprooters	uprooting	uproots	uprose	uprousing	ups	upscale	upsending	upset	upsets	upsetter	upsetters	upsetting	upshift	upshifted	upshifting	upshifts	upshot	upshots	upside	upsilon	upsilons	upstage	upstaged	upstages	upstaging	upstairs	upstanding	upstart	upstarts	upstate	upstream	upstroke	upstrokes	upsurge	upsurged	upsurges	upsurging	upsweep	upsweeps	upswell	upswelled	upswells	upswept	upswing	upswings	upswollen	upswung	uptake	uptakes	uptight	uptightness	uptilts	uptime	uptimes	uptown	uptowner	uptowners	uptowns	upturn	upturned	upturning	upturns	upward	upwardly	upwardness	upwards	upwelled	upwelling	upwells	upwind	uracil	ural	uranian	uranic	uranium	uraniums	uranous	uranus	urb	urban	urbana	urbane	urbanely	urbaner	urbanest	urbanism	urbanisms	urbanist	urbanists	urbanite	urbanites	urbanities	urbanity	urbanization	urbanize	urbanized	urbanizes	urbanizing	urbanologist	urbanologists	urbanology	urbs	urchin	urchins	urds	urea	ureal	ureas	ureic	uremia	uremic	ureter	ureters	urethanes	urethra	urethrae	urethral	urethras	uretic	urge	urged	urgencies	urgency	urgent	urgently	urger	urgers	urges	urging	urgingly	uric	urinal	urinals	urinalyses	urinalysis	urinaries	urinary	urinate	urinated	urinates	urinating	urination	urine	urines	urinogenital	urn	urns	urogenital	urogram	urolith	urolithic	uroliths	urologic	urological	urologies	urologist	urologists	urology	uroscopic	ursa	ursae	ursiform	ursine	urticaria	uruguay	uruguayan	uruguayans	urushiol	urushiols	us	usa	usability	usable	usableness	usably	usage	usages	use	useability	useable	useably	used	usee	useful	usefully	usefulness	useless	uselessly	uselessness	user	users	uses	usher	ushered	usherette	usherettes	ushering	ushers	using	ussr	usual	usually	usualness	usuals	usufruct	usufructs	usufructuary	usurer	usurers	usuries	usurious	usuriously	usurp	usurpation	usurpations	usurpative	usurpatory	usurped	usurper	usurpers	usurping	usurps	usury	ut	utah	utahan	utahans	utensil	utensils	uteri	uterine	utero	uterus	uteruses	utile	utilise	utilitarian	utilitarianism	utilitarians	utilities	utility	utilizable	utilization	utilizations	utilize	utilized	utilizer	utilizers	utilizes	utilizing	utmost	utmosts	utopia	utopian	utopians	utopias	utopisms	utopists	utter	utterance	utterances	uttered	utterer	utterers	uttering	utterly	uttermost	utters	uveal	uveas	uvula	uvulae	uvular	uvularly	uvulars	uvulas	uxorial	uxorious	uxoriously	uxoriousness	va	vacancies	vacancy	vacant	vacantly	vacatable	vacate	vacated	vacates	vacating	vacation	vacationed	vacationer	vacationers	vacationing	vacationist	vacationists	vacationland	vacations	vaccinable	vaccinal	vaccinate	vaccinated	vaccinates	vaccinating	vaccination	vaccinations	vaccinator	vaccinators	vaccine	vaccinee	vaccines	vaccinia	vaccinial	vaccinotherapy	vacillate	vacillated	vacillates	vacillating	vacillation	vacillations	vacillator	vacillators	vacua	vacuities	vacuity	vacuo	vacuolar	vacuolate	vacuole	vacuoles	vacuous	vacuously	vacuousness	vacuum	vacuumed	vacuuming	vacuums	vade	vadis	vagabond	vagabondage	vagabonded	vagabondism	vagabonds	vagal	vagaries	vagarious	vagary	vagina	vaginae	vaginal	vaginally	vaginas	vaginate	vaginated	vaginitis	vagrance	vagrancies	vagrancy	vagrant	vagrantly	vagrants	vagrom	vague	vaguely	vagueness	vaguer	vaguest	vagus	vail	vailing	vain	vainer	vainest	vainglorious	vainglory	vainly	vainness	val	valance	valanced	valances	valancing	vale	valediction	valedictions	valedictorian	valedictorians	valedictories	valedictory	valence	valences	valencia	valencias	valency	valentine	valentines	valerian	valerians	vales	valet	valeted	valeting	valets	valetudinarian	valetudinarianism	valetudinarians	valhalla	valiance	valiancies	valiancy	valiant	valiantly	valiants	valid	validate	validated	validates	validating	validation	validations	validatory	validities	validity	validly	validness	valise	valises	valium	valkyrie	valkyries	valkyrs	valley	valleys	valor	valorem	valorization	valorizations	valorize	valorized	valorizes	valorizing	valorous	valorously	valors	valour	valours	valse	valses	valuable	valuableness	valuables	valuably	valuate	valuated	valuates	valuating	valuation	valuational	valuations	valuative	valuator	valuators	value	valued	valueless	valuer	valuers	values	valuing	valuta	valutas	valva	valval	valvar	valvate	valve	valved	valveless	valvelet	valvelets	valves	valving	valvular	valvules	vamoose	vamoosed	vamooses	vamoosing	vamp	vamped	vamper	vampers	vamping	vampire	vampires	vampiric	vampirism	vampish	vamps	van	vanadium	vanadiums	vancouver	vandal	vandalic	vandalism	vandalistic	vandalization	vandalize	vandalized	vandalizes	vandalizing	vandals	vandyke	vandykes	vane	vaned	vanes	vanguard	vanguards	vanilla	vanillas	vanillic	vanillin	vanillins	vanish	vanished	vanisher	vanishers	vanishes	vanishing	vanitied	vanities	vanity	vanman	vanmen	vanquish	vanquished	vanquisher	vanquishers	vanquishes	vanquishing	vanquishment	vans	vantage	vantages	vanward	vapid	vapidities	vapidity	vapidly	vapidness	vapor	vapored	vaporer	vaporers	vaporing	vaporings	vaporise	vaporish	vaporishness	vaporization	vaporize	vaporized	vaporizer	vaporizers	vaporizes	vaporizing	vaporous	vaporously	vaporousness	vapors	vapory	vapotherapy	vapour	vapoured	vapourer	vapourers	vapouring	vapours	vapoury	vaquero	vaqueros	variabilities	variability	variable	variableness	variables	variably	variance	variances	variant	variants	variated	variates	variating	variation	variational	variations	varicolored	varicose	varicosities	varicosity	varied	variedly	variegate	variegated	variegates	variegating	variegation	variegations	varier	variers	varies	varietal	varietally	varietals	varieties	variety	variform	variorum	variorums	various	variously	variousness	varistor	varistors	varlet	varletry	varlets	varment	varments	varmint	varmints	varnish	varnished	varnishes	varnishing	varnishy	varsities	varsity	vary	varying	varyingly	vascular	vascularities	vascularly	vasculums	vase	vasectomies	vasectomize	vasectomized	vasectomizing	vasectomy	vaseline	vases	vasoconstriction	vasoconstrictive	vasoconstrictor	vasoconstrictors	vasodepressor	vasodilatation	vasodilation	vasodilator	vasoinhibitor	vasoinhibitory	vasomotor	vasopressin	vasopressor	vassal	vassalage	vassals	vassar	vast	vaster	vastest	vastier	vastiest	vastity	vastly	vastness	vasts	vasty	vat	vatful	vatfuls	vatic	vatican	vats	vatted	vatting	vaudeville	vaudevillian	vaudevillians	vault	vaulted	vaulter	vaulters	vaultier	vaultiest	vaulting	vaultings	vaults	vaulty	vaunt	vaunted	vaunter	vaunters	vauntful	vaunting	vaunts	vaunty	vc	veal	vealier	veals	vealy	vector	vectored	vectorial	vectoring	vectors	veda	vedanta	vedantic	vedic	vee	veep	veepee	veepees	veeps	veer	veered	veeries	veering	veeringly	veers	veery	vees	vegan	veganism	veganisms	vegans	vegas	vegetable	vegetables	vegetal	vegetarian	vegetarianism	vegetarians	vegetate	vegetated	vegetates	vegetating	vegetation	vegetational	vegetative	vegetist	vegetists	vegetive	vehemence	vehemency	vehement	vehemently	vehicle	vehicles	vehicular	veil	veiled	veiledly	veiler	veilers	veiling	veilings	veils	vein	veinal	veined	veiner	veiners	veinier	veining	veinings	veinless	veinlet	veinlets	veins	veinule	veiny	vela	velar	velcro	veld	velds	veldt	veldts	velleities	velleity	vellicate	vellicating	vellication	vellum	vellums	velocipede	velocipedes	velocities	velocity	velour	velours	velum	velure	velured	velures	veluring	velvet	velveted	velveteen	velvets	velvety	venal	venalities	venality	venally	venalness	venatic	venation	venations	vend	vendable	vended	vendee	vendees	vender	venders	vendetta	vendettas	vendibility	vendible	vendibles	vendibly	vending	vendor	vendors	vends	veneer	veneered	veneerer	veneerers	veneering	veneers	venerability	venerable	venerably	venerate	venerated	venerates	venerating	veneration	venereal	veneris	venerology	venery	venetian	venetians	venezuela	venezuelan	venezuelans	vengeance	vengeant	venged	vengeful	vengefully	vengefulness	venges	venging	venial	venially	venice	venin	venine	venins	venipuncture	venire	venireman	veniremen	venires	venison	venisons	venom	venomed	venomer	venomers	venoming	venomous	venomously	venoms	venose	venosities	venous	vent	ventage	vented	venter	venters	ventilate	ventilated	ventilates	ventilating	ventilation	ventilator	ventilators	ventilatory	venting	ventless	ventral	ventrally	ventrals	ventricle	ventricles	ventricular	ventriloquism	ventriloquist	ventriloquists	ventriloquy	vents	venture	ventured	venturer	venturers	ventures	venturesome	venturesomely	venturesomeness	venturi	venturing	venturis	venturous	venturously	venturousness	venue	venues	venular	venules	venus	venusian	venusians	veracious	veraciously	veraciousness	veracities	veracity	veranda	verandah	verandahs	verandas	verb	verbal	verbalization	verbalizations	verbalize	verbalized	verbalizes	verbalizing	verbally	verbals	verbatim	verbena	verbenas	verbiage	verbiages	verbid	verbids	verbified	verbifies	verbify	verbile	verbless	verbose	verbosely	verboseness	verbosity	verboten	verbs	verdancies	verdancy	verdant	verdantly	verde	verdi	verdict	verdicts	verdigris	verdure	verdured	verdures	verge	verged	vergences	verger	vergers	verges	verging	veridic	verier	veriest	verifiability	verifiable	verifiableness	verification	verifications	verificatory	verified	verifier	verifiers	verifies	verify	verifying	verily	verisimilitude	verisms	verists	veritable	veritably	veritas	verite	verities	verity	vermeil	vermicelli	vermicide	vermiculite	vermiculites	vermiform	vermifuge	vermifuges	vermilion	vermin	verminous	verminously	vermont	vermonter	vermonters	vermouth	vermouths	vermuth	vernacular	vernacularly	vernaculars	vernal	vernalization	vernalize	vernalized	vernalizes	vernalizing	vernally	vernier	verniers	veronica	veronicas	vers	versa	versailles	versal	versant	versatile	versatilely	versatileness	versatility	verse	versed	verseman	versemen	verser	versers	verses	versicle	versicles	versicolored	versification	versifications	versified	versifier	versifiers	versifies	versify	versifying	versine	versing	version	versional	versions	verso	versos	versus	vert	vertebra	vertebrae	vertebral	vertebrally	vertebras	vertebrate	vertebrated	vertebrates	vertex	vertexes	vertical	verticality	vertically	verticalness	verticals	vertices	verticillate	vertigines	vertiginous	vertiginously	vertigo	vertigoes	vertigos	vervain	vervains	verve	verves	vervet	vervets	very	vesicant	vesicants	vesicle	vesicles	vesicular	vesiculate	vesper	vesperal	vesperals	vespers	vespertine	vespucci	vessel	vesseled	vessels	vest	vestal	vestally	vestals	vestas	vested	vestee	vestees	vestibular	vestibule	vestibules	vestige	vestiges	vestigial	vestigially	vesting	vestings	vestless	vestment	vestments	vestries	vestry	vestryman	vestrymen	vests	vestural	vesture	vestured	vestures	vesuvians	vesuvius	vet	vetch	vetches	veteran	veterans	veterinarian	veterinarians	veterinaries	veterinary	veto	vetoed	vetoer	vetoers	vetoes	vetoing	vets	vetted	vetting	vex	vexation	vexations	vexatious	vexatiously	vexatiousness	vexed	vexedly	vexer	vexers	vexes	vexing	vexingly	via	viabilities	viability	viable	viably	viaduct	viaducts	vial	vialed	vialing	vialled	vialling	vials	viand	viands	vias	viatica	viaticum	viaticums	viators	vibes	vibists	vibraharp	vibraharps	vibrance	vibrances	vibrancies	vibrancy	vibrant	vibrantly	vibrants	vibraphone	vibraphones	vibrate	vibrated	vibrates	vibrating	vibration	vibrational	vibrations	vibrato	vibrator	vibrators	vibratory	vibratos	viburnum	viburnums	vicar	vicarage	vicarages	vicarate	vicarates	vicarial	vicariate	vicariates	vicarious	vicariously	vicariousness	vicarly	vicars	vice	viced	vicegerencies	vicegerency	vicegerent	vicegerents	viceless	vicennial	viceregal	viceregally	viceregent	viceregents	viceroy	viceroyalty	viceroys	vices	vichies	vichy	vichyssoise	vicinage	vicinal	vicing	vicinities	vicinity	vicious	viciously	viciousness	vicissitude	vicissitudes	vicomte	victim	victimization	victimizations	victimize	victimized	victimizer	victimizers	victimizes	victimizing	victimless	victims	victor	victoria	victorian	victorianism	victorians	victorias	victories	victorious	victoriously	victoriousness	victors	victory	victress	victresses	victual	victualed	victualer	victualers	victualing	victualled	victualler	victuallers	victualling	victuals	vicuna	vicunas	vide	videlicet	video	videocassette	videocassettes	videodisc	videodiscs	videos	videotape	videotaped	videotapes	videotaping	videotext	vidkid	vidkids	vie	vied	vienna	viennese	vier	viers	vies	vietcong	vietnam	vietnamese	view	viewable	viewed	viewer	viewers	viewfinder	viewfinders	viewier	viewing	viewings	viewless	viewpoint	viewpoints	views	viewy	vigesimal	vigil	vigilance	vigilant	vigilante	vigilantes	vigilantism	vigilantly	vigilantness	vigils	vignette	vignetted	vignettes	vignetting	vignettist	vignettists	vigor	vigorish	vigorous	vigorously	vigorousness	vigors	vigour	vigours	viking	vikings	vile	vilely	vileness	viler	vilest	vilification	vilified	vilifier	vilifiers	vilifies	vilify	vilifying	villa	villadom	villadoms	village	villager	villagers	villages	villain	villainess	villainesses	villainies	villainous	villainously	villainousness	villains	villainy	villas	villein	villeinage	villi	villous	villus	vim	vims	vin	vinaigrette	vinaigrettes	vinal	vinas	vinca	vincas	vincent	vincible	vinculum	vindicable	vindicate	vindicated	vindicates	vindicating	vindication	vindications	vindicative	vindicator	vindicators	vindicatory	vindictive	vindictively	vindictiveness	vine	vineal	vined	vinegar	vinegars	vinegary	vineries	vinery	vines	vineyard	vineyards	vinic	vinier	viniest	vining	vino	vinos	vinosities	vinosity	vinous	vinously	vins	vintage	vintagers	vintages	vintner	vintners	viny	vinyl	vinylic	vinyls	viol	viola	violability	violable	violably	violas	violate	violated	violater	violaters	violates	violating	violation	violations	violative	violator	violators	violence	violences	violent	violently	violet	violets	violin	violinist	violinists	violins	violist	violists	violoncellist	violoncellists	violoncello	violoncellos	viols	vip	viper	viperidae	viperine	viperish	viperous	vipers	vips	virago	viragoes	viragos	viral	virally	vireo	vireos	virgil	virgin	virginal	virginally	virginals	virginia	virginian	virginians	virginities	virginity	virginium	virgins	virgo	virgos	virgule	virgules	viricidal	viricides	virid	viridescent	viridian	viridians	virile	virilities	virility	virilization	virilize	virilizing	virological	virologies	virologist	virologists	virology	virtu	virtual	virtually	virtue	virtues	virtuosas	virtuosi	virtuosities	virtuosity	virtuoso	virtuosos	virtuous	virtuously	virtuousness	virucide	virulence	virulences	virulencies	virulency	virulent	virulently	virus	viruses	visa	visaed	visage	visaged	visages	visaing	visard	visards	visas	viscera	visceral	viscerally	visceromotor	viscid	viscidities	viscidity	viscidly	viscoid	viscose	viscoses	viscosimeter	viscosimetry	viscosities	viscosity	viscount	viscountess	viscountesses	viscounts	viscous	viscously	viscousness	viscus	vise	vised	viseing	viselike	vises	vishnu	visibility	visible	visibly	vising	vision	visional	visionaries	visionary	visioned	visioning	visions	visit	visitable	visitant	visitants	visitation	visitational	visitations	visitatorial	visited	visiter	visiters	visiting	visitor	visitorial	visitors	visitress	visits	visor	visored	visoring	visorless	visors	vista	vistaed	vistas	visual	visualization	visualizations	visualize	visualized	visualizer	visualizers	visualizes	visualizing	visually	visuals	vita	vitae	vital	vitalising	vitalism	vitalisms	vitalist	vitalists	vitalities	vitality	vitalization	vitalize	vitalized	vitalizer	vitalizers	vitalizes	vitalizing	vitally	vitals	vitamin	vitamine	vitamines	vitaminization	vitaminized	vitaminizing	vitaminology	vitamins	vitiate	vitiated	vitiates	vitiating	vitiation	vitiator	vitiators	viticultural	viticulture	viticulturist	viticulturists	vitreous	vitric	vitrifiable	vitrification	vitrified	vitrifies	vitrify	vitrifying	vitrine	vitrines	vitriol	vitrioled	vitriolic	vitriols	vitro	vittle	vittled	vittles	vittling	vituperate	vituperated	vituperates	vituperating	vituperation	vituperations	vituperative	vituperatively	viva	vivace	vivacious	vivaciously	vivaciousness	vivacities	vivacity	vivant	vivants	vivaria	vivaries	vivarium	vivariums	vive	vivendi	vivid	vivider	vividest	vividly	vividness	vivific	vivification	vivified	vivifier	vivifiers	vivifies	vivify	vivifying	viviparities	viviparity	viviparous	viviparously	vivisect	vivisected	vivisecting	vivisection	vivisectional	vivisectionist	vivisectionists	vivisects	vivo	vivre	vixen	vixenish	vixenishly	vixenly	vixens	viz	vizard	vizarded	vizards	vizier	viziers	vizir	vizirs	vizor	vizored	vizors	vocable	vocables	vocably	vocabularies	vocabulary	vocal	vocalic	vocalism	vocalisms	vocalist	vocalists	vocalities	vocality	vocalization	vocalizations	vocalize	vocalized	vocalizer	vocalizers	vocalizes	vocalizing	vocally	vocals	vocation	vocational	vocations	vocative	vocatively	vocatives	voce	voces	vociferate	vociferated	vociferates	vociferating	vociferation	vociferations	vociferous	vociferously	vociferousness	vocoder	vocoders	vodka	vodkas	vogue	vogues	voguish	voice	voiced	voicedness	voiceful	voiceless	voicelessly	voicelessness	voiceprint	voiceprints	voicer	voicers	voices	voicing	void	voidable	voidableness	voidance	voidances	voided	voider	voiders	voiding	voidness	voids	voila	voile	voiles	vol	volante	volatile	volatiles	volatility	volatilization	volatilize	volatilized	volatilizes	volatilizing	volcanic	volcanically	volcanics	volcanism	volcano	volcanoes	volcanological	volcanologist	volcanologists	volcanology	volcanos	vole	volente	voles	volga	volition	volitional	volitionally	volitions	volkswagen	volkswagens	volley	volleyball	volleyballs	volleyed	volleyer	volleyers	volleying	volleys	volplane	volplaned	volplanes	volplaning	volt	volta	voltage	voltages	voltaic	voltaire	voltes	voltmeter	voltmeters	volts	volubility	voluble	volubly	volume	volumed	volumes	volumetric	volumetrically	voluminosity	voluminous	voluminously	voluminousness	voluntarily	voluntary	voluntaryism	volunteer	volunteered	volunteering	volunteers	voluptuaries	voluptuary	voluptuous	voluptuously	voluptuousness	volute	voluted	volutes	volution	volvox	volvoxes	vomit	vomited	vomiter	vomiters	vomiting	vomitive	vomitory	vomitous	vomits	vomitus	von	voodoo	voodooed	voodooing	voodooism	voodoos	voracious	voraciously	voraciousness	voracities	voracity	vortex	vortexes	vortical	vortices	votable	votaries	votarist	votarists	votary	vote	voteable	voted	voteless	voter	voters	votes	voting	votive	votively	vouch	vouched	vouchee	vouchees	voucher	voucherable	vouchered	vouchering	vouchers	vouches	vouching	vouchsafe	vouchsafed	vouchsafes	vouchsafing	vow	vowed	vowel	vowelize	vowelized	vowelizes	vowels	vower	vowers	vowing	vowless	vows	vox	voyage	voyaged	voyager	voyagers	voyages	voyageur	voyageurs	voyaging	voyeur	voyeurism	voyeuristic	voyeurs	vroom	vroomed	vrooming	vrooms	vrouw	vrouws	vrow	vrows	vs	vt	vugg	vuggs	vuggy	vugh	vughs	vugs	vulcan	vulcanic	vulcanism	vulcanite	vulcanization	vulcanize	vulcanized	vulcanizer	vulcanizers	vulcanizes	vulcanizing	vulgar	vulgarer	vulgarest	vulgarian	vulgarians	vulgarism	vulgarisms	vulgarities	vulgarity	vulgarization	vulgarizations	vulgarize	vulgarized	vulgarizer	vulgarizers	vulgarizes	vulgarizing	vulgarly	vulgarness	vulgars	vulgate	vulgates	vulgo	vulguses	vulnerabilities	vulnerability	vulnerable	vulnerably	vulpine	vulture	vultures	vulturous	vulva	vulvae	vulval	vulvar	vulvas	vulvate	vying	vyingly	wa	wabble	wabbled	wabbler	wabbles	wabbly	wack	wackier	wackiest	wackily	wackiness	wacks	wacky	wacs	wad	wadable	wadded	wadder	wadders	waddied	waddies	wadding	waddings	waddle	waddled	waddler	waddlers	waddles	waddling	waddly	waddy	wade	wadeable	waded	wader	waders	wades	wadi	wadies	wading	wadis	wads	wafer	wafered	wafers	wafery	waffle	waffled	waffles	waffling	waft	waftage	wafted	wafter	wafters	wafting	wafts	wag	wage	waged	wageless	wager	wagered	wagerer	wagerers	wagering	wagers	wages	wagged	wagger	waggeries	waggers	waggery	wagging	waggish	waggle	waggled	waggles	waggling	waggly	waggon	waggoned	waggoner	waggoners	waggoning	waggons	waging	wagner	wagnerian	wagnerians	wagon	wagonage	wagoned	wagoner	wagoners	wagonette	wagonettes	wagoning	wagons	wags	wagtail	wagtails	wahine	wahines	wahoo	wahoos	waif	waifing	waifs	wail	wailed	wailer	wailers	wailful	wailfully	wailing	wails	wain	wains	wainscot	wainscoted	wainscoting	wainscots	wainscotted	wainscotting	wainwright	wainwrights	waist	waistband	waistbands	waistcoat	waistcoats	waisted	waister	waisters	waisting	waistings	waistline	waistlines	waists	wait	waited	waiter	waiters	waiting	waitings	waitress	waitresses	waits	waive	waived	waiver	waivers	waives	waiving	wake	waked	wakeful	wakefulness	wakeless	waken	wakened	wakener	wakeners	wakening	wakenings	wakens	waker	wakers	wakes	wakiki	wakikis	waking	waldorf	wale	waled	waler	wales	waling	walk	walkable	walkaway	walkaways	walked	walker	walkers	walking	walkings	walkout	walkouts	walkover	walkovers	walks	walkup	walkups	walkway	walkways	wall	walla	wallabies	wallaby	wallah	wallahs	wallas	wallboard	walled	wallet	wallets	walleye	walleyed	walleyes	wallflower	wallflowers	walling	walloon	wallop	walloped	walloper	wallopers	walloping	wallops	wallow	wallowed	wallower	wallowers	wallowing	wallows	wallpaper	wallpapered	wallpapering	wallpapers	walls	wally	walnut	walnuts	walrus	walruses	walt	walter	waltz	waltzed	waltzer	waltzers	waltzes	waltzing	wammus	wampum	wampums	wan	wand	wander	wandered	wanderer	wanderers	wandering	wanderings	wanderlust	wanders	wands	wane	waned	wanes	wang	wangle	wangled	wangler	wanglers	wangles	wangling	waning	wankel	wanly	wanner	wanness	wannesses	wannest	wanning	want	wantage	wanted	wanter	wanters	wanting	wanton	wantoned	wantoner	wantoners	wantoning	wantonly	wantonness	wantons	wants	wapiti	wapitis	wapping	war	warble	warbled	warbler	warblers	warbles	warbling	warcraft	warcrafts	ward	warded	warden	wardens	wardenship	warder	warders	wardership	warding	wardress	wardresses	wardrobe	wardrobes	wardroom	wardrooms	wards	wardship	wardships	ware	wared	warehouse	warehoused	warehouseman	warehousemen	warehouser	warehousers	warehouses	warehousing	wareroom	wares	warfare	warfares	warfarin	warfarins	warhead	warheads	warhorse	warhorses	warier	wariest	warily	wariness	waring	wark	warks	warless	warlike	warlock	warlocks	warlord	warlords	warm	warmaker	warmakers	warmed	warmer	warmers	warmest	warmhearted	warmheartedly	warmheartedness	warming	warmish	warmly	warmness	warmonger	warmongering	warmongers	warms	warmth	warmths	warmup	warmups	warn	warned	warner	warners	warning	warningly	warnings	warns	warp	warpage	warpath	warpaths	warped	warper	warpers	warping	warplane	warplanes	warpower	warpowers	warps	warrant	warrantable	warranted	warrantee	warrantees	warranter	warranties	warranting	warrantless	warrantor	warrantors	warrants	warranty	warred	warren	warreners	warrens	warring	warrior	warriors	wars	warsaw	warsaws	warship	warships	wart	warted	warthog	warthogs	wartier	wartiest	wartime	wartimes	warts	warty	warwork	warworks	warworn	wary	was	wash	washability	washable	washbasin	washbasins	washboard	washboards	washbowl	washbowls	washcloth	washcloths	washday	washdays	washed	washer	washers	washerwoman	washerwomen	washes	washier	washiest	washiness	washing	washings	washington	washingtonian	washingtonians	washout	washouts	washrag	washrags	washroom	washrooms	washstand	washstands	washtub	washtubs	washwoman	washwomen	washy	wasp	waspier	waspily	waspish	waspishly	waspishness	wasps	waspy	wassail	wassailed	wassailer	wassailers	wassailing	wassails	wast	wastable	wastage	wastages	waste	wastebasket	wastebaskets	wasted	wasteful	wastefully	wastefulness	wasteland	wastelands	wastepaper	waster	wasters	wastery	wastes	wastier	wasting	wastrel	wastrels	wasts	watch	watchband	watchbands	watchdog	watchdogs	watched	watcher	watchers	watches	watchful	watchfully	watchfulness	watching	watchmaker	watchmakers	watchmaking	watchman	watchmen	watchout	watchtower	watchtowers	watchwoman	watchwomen	watchword	watchwords	water	waterbed	waterbeds	waterborne	waterbury	watercolor	watercolors	watercourse	watercourses	watercraft	watercress	watercresses	watered	waterer	waterers	waterfall	waterfalls	waterfowl	waterfowls	waterfront	waterfronts	watergate	waterier	wateriest	waterily	watering	waterings	waterish	waterlog	waterlogged	waterlogging	waterlogs	waterloo	waterloos	waterman	watermark	watermarked	watermarking	watermarks	watermelon	watermelons	watermen	waterpower	waterproof	waterproofed	waterproofer	waterproofing	waterproofs	waters	watershed	watersheds	waterside	waterskiing	waterspout	waterspouts	watertight	waterway	waterways	waterwheel	waterworks	waterworthy	watery	wats	watson	watt	wattage	wattages	wattest	watthour	watthours	wattle	wattled	wattles	wattling	wattmeter	watts	waugh	waul	wauls	wave	waveband	wavebands	waved	waveform	waveforms	wavelength	wavelengths	waveless	wavelet	wavelets	wavelike	waveoff	waveoffs	waver	wavered	waverer	waverers	wavering	waveringly	wavers	wavery	waves	wavey	waveys	wavier	waviest	wavily	waviness	waving	wavy	wawls	wax	waxbill	waxed	waxen	waxer	waxers	waxes	waxier	waxiest	waxily	waxiness	waxing	waxings	waxwing	waxwings	waxwork	waxworks	waxy	way	waybill	waybills	wayfarer	wayfarers	wayfaring	wayfarings	waylaid	waylay	waylayer	waylayers	waylaying	waylays	wayless	wayne	ways	wayside	waysides	wayward	waywardly	waywardness	wayworn	we	we're	we've	weak	weaken	weakened	weakener	weakeners	weakening	weakens	weaker	weakest	weakfish	weakfishes	weakhearted	weakish	weaklier	weakliest	weakling	weaklings	weakly	weakness	weaknesses	weal	weald	weals	wealth	wealthier	wealthiest	wealthiness	wealths	wealthy	wean	weaned	weaner	weaners	weaning	weanling	weanlings	weans	weapon	weaponed	weaponing	weaponless	weaponries	weaponry	weapons	wear	wearable	wearables	wearer	wearers	wearied	wearier	wearies	weariest	weariful	weariless	wearily	weariness	wearing	wearish	wearisome	wearisomely	wearisomeness	wears	weary	wearying	weasand	weasands	weasel	weaseled	weaseling	weaselly	weasels	weather	weatherability	weatherboard	weatherbound	weathercock	weathercocks	weathered	weatherglass	weatherglasses	weathering	weatherman	weathermen	weatherproof	weatherproofed	weatherproofing	weatherproofs	weathers	weatherstrip	weatherstripped	weatherstrippers	weatherstripping	weatherstrips	weatherwise	weatherworn	weave	weaved	weaver	weavers	weaves	weaving	weazand	weazands	web	webbed	webbier	webbing	webbings	webby	weber	webers	webfeet	webfoot	webfooted	webless	webs	webster	websters	webworm	wed	wedded	wedder	wedders	wedding	weddings	wedge	wedged	wedges	wedgie	wedgier	wedgies	wedging	wedgy	wedlock	wedlocks	wednesday	wednesdays	weds	wee	weed	weeded	weeder	weeders	weedier	weediest	weedily	weediness	weeding	weedless	weeds	weedy	week	weekday	weekdays	weekend	weekended	weekender	weekending	weekends	weeklies	weeklong	weekly	weeks	ween	weened	weenie	weenier	weenies	weeniest	weening	weens	weensier	weensiest	weensy	weeny	weep	weeper	weepers	weepier	weepiest	weeping	weeps	weepy	weest	weevil	weeviled	weevilly	weevils	weevily	weewee	weeweed	weeweeing	weewees	weft	wefts	wehner	weigh	weighage	weighed	weigher	weighers	weighing	weighman	weighmaster	weighmen	weighs	weight	weighted	weighter	weighters	weightier	weightiest	weightily	weightiness	weighting	weightless	weightlessly	weightlessness	weights	weighty	weiner	weiners	weir	weird	weirder	weirdest	weirdie	weirdies	weirdly	weirdness	weirdo	weirdoes	weirdos	weirds	weirdy	weirs	welch	welched	welcher	welchers	welches	welching	welcome	welcomed	welcomer	welcomers	welcomes	welcoming	weld	weldable	welded	welder	welders	welding	weldless	welds	welfare	welfares	welkin	welkins	well	welladay	welladays	wellbeing	wellborn	wellbred	welled	wellhead	wellheads	wellhole	wellholes	welling	wellington	wellness	wells	wellsite	wellspring	wellsprings	welsh	welshed	welsher	welshers	welshes	welshing	welshman	welshmen	welshwoman	welshwomen	welt	weltanschauung	welted	welter	weltered	weltering	welters	welterweight	welterweights	welting	weltings	welts	wen	wench	wenched	wencher	wenchers	wenches	wenching	wend	wended	wending	wends	wennier	wennish	wenny	wens	went	wept	were	weregild	weregilds	werewolf	werewolves	wergeld	wergelt	wergild	wert	werwolf	werwolves	weskit	weskits	wesley	wesleyans	west	westbound	wester	westered	westering	westerlies	westerly	western	westerner	westerners	westernize	westernized	westernizes	westernizing	westerns	westers	westing	westinghouse	westings	westminster	westmost	wests	westward	westwardly	westwards	wet	wetback	wetbacks	wether	wethers	wetland	wetlands	wetly	wetness	wetnesses	wetproof	wets	wetsuit	wettable	wetted	wetter	wetters	wettest	wetting	wettings	wettish	wha	whack	whacked	whacker	whackers	whackier	whackiest	whacking	whacks	whacky	whale	whaleboat	whaleboats	whalebone	whalebones	whaled	whaler	whalers	whales	whaling	whalings	wham	whammed	whammies	whamming	whammy	whams	whang	whanged	whangers	whanging	whangs	whap	whapped	whapper	whappers	whapping	whaps	wharf	wharfage	wharfages	wharfed	wharfing	wharfinger	wharfingers	wharfmaster	wharfs	wharve	wharves	what	whatever	whatnot	whatnots	whats	whatsoever	wheal	wheals	wheat	wheaten	wheaties	wheats	whee	wheedle	wheedled	wheedler	wheedlers	wheedles	wheedling	wheel	wheelbarrow	wheelbarrows	wheelbase	wheelbases	wheelchair	wheelchairs	wheeled	wheeler	wheelers	wheelie	wheelies	wheeling	wheelings	wheelless	wheelman	wheelmen	wheels	wheelwright	wheelwrights	wheeze	wheezed	wheezer	wheezers	wheezes	wheezier	wheeziest	wheezily	wheeziness	wheezing	wheezy	whelk	whelks	whelky	whelm	whelmed	whelming	whelms	whelp	whelped	whelping	whelps	when	whenas	whence	whencesoever	whenever	whens	whensoever	where	whereabouts	whereafter	whereas	whereases	whereat	whereby	wherefor	wherefore	wherefores	wherefrom	wherein	whereinsoever	whereof	whereon	wheres	wheresoever	whereto	whereunder	whereunto	whereupon	wherever	wherewith	wherewithal	wherries	wherry	wherrying	whet	whether	whets	whetstone	whetstones	whetted	whetter	whetters	whetting	whew	whews	whey	wheyey	wheyface	wheyfaces	wheyish	wheys	which	whichever	whichsoever	whicker	whickered	whickering	whickers	whiff	whiffed	whiffer	whiffers	whiffing	whiffle	whiffled	whiffler	whifflers	whiffles	whiffletree	whiffletrees	whiffling	whiffs	whig	whigs	while	whiled	whiles	whiling	whilom	whilst	whim	whimper	whimpered	whimpering	whimperingly	whimpers	whims	whimsey	whimsical	whimsicality	whimsically	whimsied	whimsies	whimsy	whine	whined	whiner	whiners	whines	whiney	whinier	whiniest	whining	whiningly	whinnied	whinnier	whinnies	whinniest	whinny	whinnying	whiny	whip	whipcord	whipcords	whiplash	whiplashes	whipped	whipper	whippers	whippersnapper	whippersnappers	whippet	whippets	whippier	whippiest	whipping	whippings	whippletree	whippoorwill	whippoorwills	whippy	whips	whipsaw	whipsawed	whipsawing	whipsawn	whipsaws	whipt	whiptail	whiptails	whipworm	whipworms	whir	whirl	whirled	whirler	whirlers	whirlier	whirlies	whirliest	whirligig	whirligigs	whirling	whirlpool	whirlpools	whirls	whirlwind	whirlwinds	whirly	whirlybird	whirlybirds	whirr	whirred	whirring	whirrs	whirry	whirs	whish	whished	whishes	whishing	whisht	whishted	whishts	whisk	whisked	whisker	whiskered	whiskers	whiskery	whiskey	whiskeys	whiskies	whisking	whisks	whisky	whisper	whispered	whispering	whisperings	whispers	whispery	whist	whisted	whisting	whistle	whistled	whistler	whistlers	whistles	whistling	whists	whit	white	whitecap	whitecapper	whitecapping	whitecaps	whitecomb	whited	whitefish	whitefishes	whitehall	whitehead	whiteheads	whitely	whiten	whitened	whitener	whiteners	whiteness	whitening	whitens	whiteout	whiteouts	whiter	whites	whitest	whitewall	whitewalls	whitewash	whitewashed	whitewashes	whitewashing	whitey	whiteys	whitfield	whither	whithersoever	whities	whiting	whitings	whitish	whitishness	whitlow	whitlows	whitman	whitney	whits	whitsunday	whitter	whittle	whittled	whittler	whittlers	whittles	whittling	whity	whiz	whizbang	whizbangs	whizz	whizzed	whizzer	whizzers	whizzes	whizzing	who	whoa	whodunit	whodunits	whoever	whole	wholehearted	wholeheartedly	wholeheartedness	wholely	wholeness	wholes	wholesale	wholesaled	wholesaler	wholesalers	wholesales	wholesaling	wholesome	wholesomely	wholesomeness	wholewheat	wholism	wholisms	wholly	whom	whomever	whomp	whomped	whomping	whomps	whomso	whomsoever	whoop	whooped	whoopee	whoopees	whooper	whoopers	whooping	whoopla	whooplas	whoops	whoosh	whooshed	whooshes	whooshing	whoosis	whopped	whopper	whoppers	whopping	whops	whore	whored	whoredom	whoredoms	whorehouse	whoremaster	whores	whoreson	whoresons	whoring	whorish	whorl	whorled	whorls	whortle	whose	whosis	whoso	whosoever	whump	whumped	whumping	whumps	why	whys	wichita	wick	wicked	wickeder	wickedest	wickedly	wickedness	wicker	wickers	wickerwork	wicket	wickets	wicking	wickings	wickiup	wickiups	wicks	wickyup	widder	widders	widdies	widdle	widdled	widdles	widdling	wide	widely	widemouthed	widen	widened	widener	wideners	wideness	widening	widens	wider	wides	widespread	widest	widgeon	widgeons	widget	widgets	widish	widow	widowed	widower	widowered	widowerhood	widowers	widowhood	widowing	widows	width	widths	widthway	wiedersehen	wield	wielded	wielder	wielders	wieldier	wieldiest	wielding	wields	wieldy	wiener	wieners	wienie	wienies	wierd	wife	wifed	wifedom	wifedoms	wifehood	wifehoods	wifeless	wifelier	wifeliest	wifely	wifes	wifing	wig	wigeon	wigeons	wigged	wiggeries	wiggery	wigging	wiggle	wiggled	wiggler	wigglers	wiggles	wigglier	wiggliest	wiggling	wiggly	wight	wights	wigless	wiglet	wiglets	wiglike	wigmaker	wigmakers	wigs	wigwag	wigwagged	wigwagging	wigwags	wigwam	wigwams	wikiups	wilco	wild	wildcard	wildcat	wildcats	wildcatted	wildcatter	wildcatting	wildebeest	wildebeests	wilder	wildering	wilderness	wildernesses	wilders	wildest	wildfire	wildfires	wildfowl	wildfowls	wilding	wildish	wildlife	wildling	wildlings	wildly	wildness	wilds	wildwood	wildwoods	wile	wiled	wiles	wilful	wilfully	wilfulness	wilier	wiliest	wilily	wiliness	wiling	will	willable	willed	willer	willers	willets	willful	willfully	willfulness	william	williams	willied	willies	willing	willinger	willingest	willingly	willingness	williwaw	williwaws	willow	willowed	willowers	willowier	willowiest	willowing	willows	willowy	willpower	wills	willy	wilson	wilt	wilted	wilting	wilts	wily	wimble	wimbles	wimple	wimpled	wimples	win	wince	winced	wincer	wincers	winces	winceys	winch	winched	wincher	winchers	winches	winching	wincing	wind	windable	windage	windages	windbag	windbags	windblown	windbreak	windbreaks	windburn	windburned	windburns	windburnt	windchill	winded	winder	winders	windfall	windfalls	windflower	windflowers	windier	windiest	windily	windiness	winding	windings	windjammer	windjammers	windlass	windlassed	windlasses	windless	windmill	windmilled	windmills	window	windowed	windowing	windowless	windowpane	windowpanes	windows	windowsill	windpipe	windpipes	windproof	windrow	windrowing	windrows	winds	windscreen	windshield	windshields	windsock	windsocks	windsor	windstorm	windstorms	windsurf	windswept	windup	windups	windward	windwards	windy	wine	wined	winegrower	winepress	wineries	winery	wines	wineshop	wineshops	wineskin	wineskins	winesop	winesops	winey	wing	wingback	wingbacks	wingding	wingdings	winged	wingedly	wingers	wingier	winging	wingless	winglet	winglets	wingman	wingmen	wingover	wingovers	wings	wingspan	wingspans	wingspread	wingspreads	wingy	winier	winiest	wining	winish	wink	winked	winker	winkers	winking	winkle	winkled	winkles	winkling	winks	winless	winnable	winned	winner	winners	winning	winningly	winnings	winnipeg	winnow	winnowed	winnower	winnowers	winnowing	winnows	wino	winoes	winos	wins	winslow	winsome	winsomely	winsomeness	winsomer	winsomest	winter	wintered	winterer	winterers	wintergreen	wintergreens	winterier	winteriest	wintering	winterization	winterize	winterized	winterizes	winterizing	winterkill	winterkilled	winterkilling	winterkills	winterly	winters	wintertide	wintertime	wintery	wintling	wintrier	wintriest	wintrily	wintry	winy	wipe	wiped	wipeout	wipeouts	wiper	wipers	wipes	wiping	wirable	wire	wired	wiredraw	wiredrawn	wiredraws	wiredrew	wirehair	wirehaired	wirehairs	wireless	wirelessed	wirelesses	wireman	wiremen	wirephoto	wirephotos	wirepuller	wirepullers	wirepulling	wirer	wirers	wires	wiretap	wiretapped	wiretapper	wiretappers	wiretapping	wiretaps	wireway	wireways	wirework	wireworks	wireworm	wireworms	wirier	wiriest	wirily	wiriness	wiring	wirings	wiry	wisconsin	wisconsinite	wisconsinites	wisdom	wisdoms	wise	wiseacre	wiseacres	wisecrack	wisecracked	wisecracker	wisecrackers	wisecracking	wisecracks	wised	wiseliest	wisely	wiseness	wiser	wises	wisest	wish	wishbone	wishbones	wished	wisher	wishers	wishes	wishful	wishfully	wishfulness	wishing	wishless	wishy	wising	wisp	wisped	wispier	wispiest	wispily	wisping	wispish	wisps	wispy	wisteria	wisterias	wistful	wistfully	wistfulness	wisting	wists	wit	witch	witchcraft	witched	witcheries	witchery	witches	witchier	witchiest	witching	witchings	witchy	with	withal	withdraw	withdrawable	withdrawal	withdrawals	withdrawer	withdrawing	withdrawn	withdrawnness	withdraws	withdrew	withe	withed	wither	withered	witherer	witherers	withering	witheringly	withers	withes	withheld	withhold	withholder	withholders	withholding	withholdings	withholds	withier	withies	within	withing	withins	without	withouts	withstand	withstanding	withstands	withstood	withy	witless	witlessly	witlessness	witling	witlings	witness	witnessable	witnessed	witnesser	witnessers	witnesses	witnessing	wits	witted	wittedness	witticism	witticisms	wittier	wittiest	wittily	wittiness	witting	wittingly	wittings	witty	wive	wived	wiver	wivern	wiverns	wivers	wives	wiving	wiz	wizard	wizardly	wizardries	wizardry	wizards	wizen	wizened	wizening	wizens	wizes	wk	wkly	woad	woaded	woads	woald	woalds	wobble	wobbled	wobbler	wobblers	wobbles	wobblier	wobblies	wobbliest	wobbliness	wobbling	wobbly	wobegone	woe	woebegone	woeful	woefuller	woefullest	woefully	woefulness	woeness	woenesses	woes	woesome	woful	wofully	wok	woke	woken	woks	wold	wolds	wolf	wolfed	wolfer	wolfers	wolfhound	wolfhounds	wolfing	wolfish	wolfram	wolframs	wolfs	wolfsbane	wolfsbanes	wolver	wolverine	wolverines	wolvers	wolves	woman	womaned	womanhood	womanish	womanize	womanized	womanizer	womanizers	womanizes	womanizing	womankind	womanlier	womanliest	womanlike	womanliness	womanly	womans	womb	wombat	wombats	wombed	wombier	wombs	womby	women	womenfolk	won	wonder	wondered	wonderer	wonderers	wonderful	wonderfully	wonderfulness	wondering	wonderingly	wonderland	wonderlands	wonderment	wonders	wondrous	wondrously	wondrousness	wonkier	wonky	wont	wonted	wontedly	wonting	wonton	wontons	wonts	woo	wood	woodbin	woodbine	woodbines	woodbins	woodblock	woodblocks	woodbox	woodcarver	woodcarvers	woodcarving	woodcarvings	woodchopper	woodchuck	woodchucks	woodcock	woodcocks	woodcraft	woodcut	woodcuts	woodcutter	woodcutters	woodcutting	wooded	wooden	woodener	woodenest	woodenly	woodenness	woodenware	woodgraining	woodhen	woodier	woodiest	woodiness	wooding	woodland	woodlander	woodlands	woodlore	woodlot	woodlots	woodman	woodmen	woodnote	woodnotes	woodpecker	woodpeckers	woodpile	woodpiles	woodruff	woodruffs	woods	woodshed	woodsheds	woodsier	woodsiest	woodsman	woodsmen	woodsy	woodward	woodwax	woodwind	woodwinds	woodwork	woodworker	woodworking	woodworks	woodworm	woodworms	woody	wooed	wooer	wooers	woof	woofed	woofer	woofers	woofing	woofs	wooing	wooingly	wool	wooled	woolen	woolens	wooler	woolers	woolgathering	woolie	woolier	woolies	wooliest	woollen	woollens	woollier	woollies	woolliest	woolliness	woolly	woolman	woolmen	woolpack	wools	woolsack	woolshed	woolskin	woolsorter	woolworth	wooly	woomera	woops	woos	woosh	wooshed	wooshes	wooshing	woozier	wooziest	woozily	wooziness	woozy	wop	wops	worcester	word	wordage	wordages	wordbook	wordbooks	worded	wordier	wordiest	wordily	wordiness	wording	wordings	wordless	wordlessly	wordperfect	wordplay	wordplays	wordprocessors	words	wordstar	wordy	wore	work	workability	workable	workableness	workaday	workaholic	workaholics	workaholism	workbag	workbags	workbench	workbenches	workboat	workbook	workbooks	workbox	workboxes	workday	workdays	worked	worker	workers	workfolk	workhand	workhorse	workhorses	workhouse	workhouses	working	workingman	workingmen	workings	workingwoman	workingwomen	workless	workload	workloads	workman	workmanlike	workmanship	workmaster	workmen	workout	workouts	workroom	workrooms	works	workshop	workshops	workstation	workstations	worktable	worktables	workup	workups	workweek	workweeks	workwoman	workwomen	world	worldbeater	worldbeaters	worldlier	worldliest	worldliness	worldling	worldlings	worldly	worlds	worldwide	worm	wormed	wormer	wormers	wormhole	wormholes	wormier	wormiest	worming	wormish	worms	wormwood	wormwoods	wormy	worn	wornness	wornout	worried	worriedly	worrier	worriers	worries	worriment	worriments	worrisome	worrisomely	worrit	worry	worrying	worrywart	worrywarts	worse	worsen	worsened	worsening	worsens	worser	worses	worship	worshiped	worshiper	worshipers	worshipful	worshipfully	worshiping	worshipped	worshipper	worshippers	worshipping	worships	worst	worsted	worsteds	worsting	worsts	wort	worth	worthed	worthful	worthier	worthies	worthiest	worthily	worthiness	worthing	worthless	worthlessly	worthlessness	worths	worthwhile	worthy	worts	wots	wotted	wotting	would	wouldest	wouldst	wound	wounded	wounding	woundingly	wounds	wove	woven	wow	wowed	wowing	wows	wowser	wowsers	wpm	wrack	wracked	wrackful	wracking	wracks	wraith	wraiths	wrang	wrangle	wrangled	wrangler	wranglers	wrangles	wrangling	wrap	wraparound	wraparounds	wrapped	wrapper	wrappers	wrapping	wrappings	wraps	wrapt	wrasse	wrasses	wrastle	wrastled	wrastles	wrath	wrathed	wrathful	wrathfully	wrathfulness	wrathier	wrathiest	wrathily	wrathing	wraths	wrathy	wreak	wreaked	wreaker	wreakers	wreaking	wreaks	wreath	wreathe	wreathed	wreathes	wreathing	wreaths	wreathy	wreck	wreckage	wreckages	wrecked	wrecker	wreckers	wreckful	wrecking	wreckings	wrecks	wren	wrench	wrenched	wrenches	wrenching	wrens	wrest	wrested	wrester	wresters	wresting	wrestle	wrestled	wrestler	wrestlers	wrestles	wrestling	wrests	wretch	wretched	wretcheder	wretchedly	wretchedness	wretches	wried	wrier	wries	wriest	wriggle	wriggled	wriggler	wrigglers	wriggles	wrigglier	wriggliest	wriggling	wriggly	wright	wrights	wrigley	wring	wringed	wringer	wringers	wringing	wrings	wrinkle	wrinkled	wrinkles	wrinklier	wrinkliest	wrinkling	wrinkly	wrist	wristband	wristbands	wristdrop	wristiest	wristlet	wristlets	wrists	wristwatch	wristwatches	wristy	writ	writable	write	writeoff	writeoffs	writer	writers	writes	writhe	writhed	writher	writhers	writhes	writhing	writhingly	writing	writings	writs	written	wrong	wrongdoer	wrongdoers	wrongdoing	wronged	wronger	wrongers	wrongest	wrongful	wrongfully	wrongfulness	wrongheaded	wrongheadedly	wrongheadedness	wronging	wrongly	wrongness	wrongs	wrote	wroth	wrothful	wrought	wrung	wry	wryer	wryest	wrying	wryly	wryneck	wrynecks	wryness	wrynesses	wurst	wursts	wurzel	wye	wyes	wyoming	wyomingite	wyvern	wyverns	xanthate	xanthates	xanthic	xanthin	xanthine	xanthippe	xanthochroid	xanthoma	xanthophyll	xanthous	xebec	xebecs	xenia	xenic	xenobiologies	xenobiology	xenocryst	xenogamy	xenograft	xenolith	xenolithic	xenoliths	xenon	xenons	xenophobe	xenophobes	xenophobia	xenophobic	xeric	xeroderma	xerographic	xerography	xerophilous	xerophthalmia	xerophyte	xerosis	xerox	xeroxed	xeroxes	xeroxing	xii	xiii	xiphoid	xiphoids	xiphosuran	xiv	xix	xmas	xmases	xvi	xvii	xviii	xx	xxi	xxii	xxiii	xxiv	xxv	xxx	xylan	xylem	xylems	xylene	xylidine	xylitol	xylograph	xylography	xyloid	xylophagous	xylophone	xylophones	xylophonist	xylophonists	xylose	xylotomy	xyster	xysters	xysts	xystus	yabber	yabbers	yacht	yachted	yachter	yachters	yachting	yachtings	yachtman	yachtmen	yachts	yachtsman	yachtsmanship	yachtsmen	yachtswoman	yachtswomen	yack	yacked	yacking	yacks	yahoo	yahooism	yahooisms	yahoos	yahweh	yak	yakked	yakking	yaks	yale	yam	yamen	yamens	yammer	yammered	yammerer	yammerers	yammering	yammers	yams	yamun	yamuns	yang	yangtze	yank	yanked	yankee	yankees	yanking	yanks	yanqui	yanquis	yap	yapped	yapper	yappers	yapping	yaps	yard	yardage	yardages	yardarm	yardarms	yardbird	yardbirds	yarded	yarding	yardman	yardmaster	yardmasters	yardmen	yards	yardstick	yardsticks	yare	yarely	yarer	yarest	yarmulke	yarmulkes	yarn	yarned	yarning	yarns	yarrow	yarrows	yashmac	yashmak	yashmaks	yasmaks	yaw	yawed	yawing	yawl	yawled	yawling	yawls	yawn	yawned	yawner	yawners	yawning	yawns	yawp	yawped	yawper	yawpers	yawping	yawps	yaws	yay	ycleped	yclept	yds	ye	yea	yeah	year	year's	yearbook	yearbooks	yearlies	yearling	yearlings	yearlong	yearly	yearn	yearned	yearner	yearners	yearning	yearningly	yearnings	yearns	years	yeas	yeast	yeasted	yeastier	yeastiest	yeastily	yeasting	yeasts	yeasty	yegg	yeggman	yeggmen	yeggs	yell	yelled	yeller	yellers	yelling	yellow	yellowbellied	yellowbellies	yellowbelly	yellowed	yellower	yellowest	yellowing	yellowish	yellowknife	yellowly	yellows	yellowy	yells	yelp	yelped	yelper	yelpers	yelping	yelps	yemen	yemenite	yemenites	yen	yenned	yenning	yens	yenta	yentas	yeoman	yeomanly	yeomanry	yeomen	yep	yerba	yerbas	yes	yeses	yeshiva	yeshivah	yeshivahs	yeshivas	yeshivoth	yessed	yesses	yessing	yester	yesterday	yesterdays	yesteryear	yesteryears	yet	yeti	yetis	yew	yews	yid	yids	yield	yielded	yielder	yielders	yielding	yields	yin	yins	yip	yipe	yipes	yipped	yippee	yippie	yippies	yipping	yips	ymca	yod	yodel	yodeled	yodeler	yodelers	yodeling	yodelled	yodeller	yodellers	yodelling	yodels	yodhs	yodle	yodled	yodler	yodlers	yodles	yodling	yoga	yogas	yogee	yogees	yoghourts	yoghs	yoghurt	yoghurts	yogi	yogic	yogin	yogini	yoginis	yogins	yogis	yogurt	yogurts	yoicks	yoke	yoked	yokel	yokeless	yokelish	yokels	yokemate	yokemates	yokes	yoking	yokohama	yolk	yolked	yolkier	yolks	yolky	yon	yond	yonder	yoni	yonis	yonker	yonkers	yore	yores	york	yorker	yorkers	yosemite	you	you'd	young	younger	youngers	youngest	youngish	youngling	younglings	youngs	youngster	youngsters	youngstown	younker	younkers	your	yourn	yours	yourself	yourselves	youse	youth	youthen	youthened	youthening	youthens	youthful	youthfully	youthfulness	youths	yow	yowed	yowie	yowies	yowing	yowl	yowled	yowler	yowlers	yowling	yowls	yows	yr	yrs	ytterbic	ytterbium	yttria	yttric	yttrium	yttriums	yuan	yucca	yuccas	yugoslav	yugoslavia	yugoslavian	yugoslavians	yugoslavs	yuk	yukked	yukking	yukon	yuks	yule	yules	yuletide	yuletides	yummier	yummies	yummiest	yummy	yup	yuppie	yurt	yurts	ywca	zabaione	zabaiones	zachariah	zaftig	zag	zagged	zagging	zags	zaire	zairian	zairians	zambezi	zambia	zambian	zambians	zanier	zanies	zaniest	zanily	zaniness	zany	zanyish	zanzibar	zap	zapped	zapping	zaps	zarfs	zazen	zeal	zealand	zealander	zealanders	zealot	zealotries	zealotry	zealots	zealous	zealously	zealousness	zeals	zebeck	zebecks	zebecs	zebra	zebraic	zebras	zebrass	zebrasses	zebrine	zebroid	zebu	zebus	zed	zeds	zee	zees	zeins	zeiss	zeitgeist	zemstvos	zen	zenana	zenanas	zendo	zenith	zenithal	zeniths	zeolite	zephyr	zephyrs	zeppelin	zeppelins	zero	zeroed	zeroes	zeroing	zeros	zest	zested	zestful	zestfully	zestfulness	zestier	zestiest	zesting	zests	zesty	zeta	zetas	zeus	zig	zigged	zigging	ziggurat	ziggurats	zigs	zigzag	zigzagged	zigzagging	zigzags	zikurat	zilch	zilches	zillion	zillions	zillionth	zillionths	zimbabwe	zinc	zincate	zinced	zincic	zincified	zincifies	zincify	zincing	zincite	zincked	zincking	zincky	zincoid	zincous	zincs	zincy	zing	zinged	zinger	zingers	zingier	zingiest	zinging	zings	zingy	zinkify	zinky	zinnia	zinnias	zion	zionism	zionist	zionists	zip	zipped	zipper	zippered	zippering	zippers	zippier	zippiest	zipping	zippy	zips	zircon	zirconic	zirconium	zircons	zither	zitherist	zitherists	zithern	zitherns	zithers	zitis	zizzle	zizzled	zizzles	zizzling	zloty	zlotys	zn	zodiac	zodiacal	zodiacs	zoeas	zoftig	zombi	zombie	zombies	zombiism	zombiisms	zombis	zonal	zonally	zonated	zonation	zone	zoned	zoneless	zoner	zoners	zones	zonetime	zonetimes	zoning	zonked	zoo	zoogenous	zoogeographic	zoogeographical	zoogeographies	zoogeography	zoography	zooid	zooids	zooks	zoologic	zoological	zoologically	zoologies	zoologist	zoologists	zoology	zoom	zoomanias	zoomed	zooming	zoomorphs	zooms	zoons	zooparasitic	zoopathologies	zoopathology	zoophiles	zoophobia	zoophyte	zoophytes	zooplankton	zoos	zoospores	zori	zoroaster	zoroastrian	zoroastrianism	zoroastrians	zoster	zouave	zouaves	zounds	zowie	zoysia	zoysias	zucchetto	zucchettos	zucchini	zucchinis	zulu	zulus	zuni	zunis zurich  zwieback	zwiebacks	zygote	zygotes	zygotic	zymase	zymogenic	zymology	zymolysis	zymoplastic	zymoscope	zymurgy	zyzzyva	zyzzyvas aah	aahed	aahing	aahs	aardvark	aardvarks	aardwolf	ab	abaci	aback	abacus	abacuses	abaft	abalone	abalones	abandon	abandoned	abandonedly	abandonee	abandoner	abandoners	abandoning	abandonment	abandonments	abandons	abase	abased	abasedly	abasement	abaser	abasers	abases	abash	abashed	abashedly	abashes	abashing	abashment	abashments	abasing	abatable	abate	abated	abatement	abatements	abater	abaters	abates	abating	abatis	abatises	abator	abattoir	abattoirs	abbacies	abbacy	abbatial	abbe	abbes	abbess	abbesses	abbey	abbeys	abbot	abbotcies	abbotcy	abbots	abbotship	abbotships	abbott	abbr	abbrev	abbreviate	abbreviated	abbreviates	abbreviating	abbreviation	abbreviations	abbreviator	abbreviators	abc	abdicable	abdicate	abdicated	abdicates	abdicating	abdication	abdications	abdicator	abdomen	abdomens	abdominal	abdominally	abduct	abducted	abducting	abduction	abductions	abductor	abductors	abducts	abeam	abecedarian	abecedarians	abed	aberdeen	aberrance	aberrancies	aberrancy	aberrant	aberrantly	aberrants	aberration	aberrational	aberrations	abet	abetment	abets	abettal	abettals	abetted	abetter	abetters	abetting	abettor	abettors	abeyance	abeyances	abeyancies	abeyancy	abeyant	abhor	abhorred	abhorrence	abhorrences	abhorrent	abhorrently	abhorrer	abhorrers	abhorring	abhors	abidance	abide	abided	abider	abiders	abides	abiding	abidingly	abidingness	abigail	abilene	abilities	ability	abiotic	abject	abjection	abjectly	abjectness	abjuration	abjurations	abjuratory	abjure	abjured	abjurer	abjurers	abjures	abjuring	ablate	ablated	ablates	ablating	ablation	ablations	ablatival	ablative	ablatively	ablatives	ablaze	able	ableness	abler	ables	ablest	ablings	abloom	ablush	abluted	ablution	ablutionary	ablutions	ably	abnegate	abnegated	abnegates	abnegating	abnegation	abnegations	abnegator	abnegators	abner	abnormal	abnormalities	abnormality	abnormally	abnormals	abo	aboard	abode	aboded	abodes	aboding	aboil	abolish	abolishable	abolished	abolisher	abolishers	abolishes	abolishing	abolishment	abolition	abolitionary	abolitionism	abolitionist	abolitionists	abominable	abominably	abominate	abominated	abominates	abominating	abomination	abominations	abominator	abominators	aboral	aboriginal	aboriginally	aborigine	aborigines	aborning	abort	aborted	aborter	aborters	abortifacient	aborting	abortion	abortional	abortionist	abortionists	abortions	abortive	abortively	abortiveness	abortogenic	aborts	abound	abounded	abounding	abounds	about	above	aboveboard	aboveground	aboves	abracadabra	abradant	abradants	abrade	abraded	abrader	abraders	abrades	abrading	abraham	abrasion	abrasions	abrasive	abrasively	abrasiveness	abrasives	abreact	abreacted	abreacting	abreaction	abreacts	abreast	abridge	abridged	abridgement	abridgements	abridger	abridgers	abridges	abridging	abridgment	abridgments	abroad	abrogate	abrogated	abrogates	abrogating	abrogation	abrogations	abrogative	abrogator	abrogators	abrupt	abrupter	abruptest	abruptly	abruptness	abs	abscam	abscess	abscessed	abscesses	abscessing	abscise	abscised	abscises	abscising	abscissa	abscissae	abscissas	abscission	abscissions	abscond	absconded	absconder	absconders	absconding	absconds	absence	absences	absent	absented	absentee	absenteeism	absentees	absenter	absenters	absentia	absenting	absently	absentminded	absentmindedly	absentmindedness	absents	absinth	absinthe	absinthes	absinths	absolute	absolutely	absoluteness	absoluter	absolutes	absolutest	absolution	absolutions	absolutism	absolutist	absolutistic	absolutists	absolvable	absolve	absolved	absolver	absolvers	absolves	absolving	absorb	absorbability	absorbable	absorbed	absorbencies	absorbency	absorbent	absorbents	absorber	absorbers	absorbing	absorbingly	absorbs	absorption	absorptions	absorptive	abstain	abstained	abstainer	abstainers	abstaining	abstains	abstemious	abstemiously	abstemiousness	abstention	abstentionism	abstentionist	abstentions	abstentious	abstinence	abstinent	abstinently	abstract	abstracted	abstractedly	abstractedness	abstracter	abstracters	abstracting	abstraction	abstractionism	abstractionist	abstractionists	abstractions	abstractly	abstractness	abstractor	abstractors	abstracts	abstricts	abstruse	abstrusely	abstruseness	abstruser	abstrusest	absurd	absurder	absurdest	absurdities	absurdity	absurdly	absurdness	absurds	absurdum	abt	abubble	abundance	abundances	abundant	abundantly	abusable	abusage	abuse	abused	abuser	abusers	abuses	abusing	abusive	abusively	abusiveness	abut	abutment	abutments	abuts	abuttal	abuttals	abutted	abutter	abutters	abutting	abuzz	abyes	abysm	abysmal	abysmally	abysms	abyss	abyssal	abysses	abyssinia	abyssinian	abyssinians	ac	acacia	acacias	academe	academes	academia	academias	academic	academical	academically	academician	academicians	academicianship	academicism	academics	academies	academy	acadia	acanthi	acanthus	acanthuses	acapulco	accede	acceded	accedence	acceder	acceders	accedes	acceding	accelerable	accelerando	accelerant	accelerate	accelerated	accelerates	accelerating	acceleration	accelerations	accelerative	accelerator	accelerators	accelerometer	accelerometers	accent	accented	accenting	accents	accentual	accentuate	accentuated	accentuates	accentuating	accentuation	accentuator	accept	acceptability	acceptable	acceptableness	acceptably	acceptance	acceptances	acceptant	acceptation	accepted	acceptedly	acceptee	acceptees	accepter	accepters	accepting	acceptive	acceptor	accepts	access	accessability	accessed	accesses	accessibility	accessible	accessibleness	accessibly	accessing	accession	accessions	accessories	accessorily	accessoriness	accessors	accessory	accidence	accident	accidental	accidentally	accidentalness	accidentals	accidents	accidie	accidies	acclaim	acclaimed	acclaimer	acclaimers	acclaiming	acclaims	acclamation	acclamations	acclimate	acclimated	acclimates	acclimating	acclimation	acclimatization	acclimatize	acclimatized	acclimatizer	acclimatizes	acclimatizing	acclivities	acclivitous	acclivity	accolade	accolades	accommodate	accommodated	accommodates	accommodating	accommodatingly	accommodation	accommodational	accommodations	accommodative	accommodatively	accommodativeness	accommodator	accommodators	accompanied	accompanies	accompaniment	accompaniments	accompanist	accompanists	accompany	accompanying	accompanyist	accompli	accomplice	accomplices	accomplis	accomplish	accomplishable	accomplished	accomplisher	accomplishers	accomplishes	accomplishing	accomplishment	accomplishments	accord	accordable	accordance	accordant	accordantly	accorded	accorder	accorders	according	accordingly	accordion	accordionist	accordionists	accordions	accords	accost	accostable	accosted	accosting	accosts	account	accountability	accountable	accountableness	accountably	accountancy	accountant	accountants	accountantship	accounted	accounter	accounters	accounting	accounts	accouter	accoutered	accoutering	accouterment	accouterments	accouters	accoutred	accoutrement	accoutres	accoutring	accredit	accreditation	accredited	accreditee	accrediting	accreditment	accredits	accrete	accreted	accretes	accreting	accretion	accretionary	accretions	accruable	accrual	accruals	accrue	accrued	accruement	accrues	accruing	acct	accts	acculturate	acculturation	acculturational	acculturative	accumulable	accumulate	accumulated	accumulates	accumulating	accumulation	accumulations	accumulative	accumulatively	accumulativeness	accumulator	accumulators	accuracies	accuracy	accurate	accurately	accurateness	accurse	accursed	accursedly	accursedness	accurst	accusable	accusal	accusals	accusant	accusation	accusations	accusative	accusatively	accusativeness	accusatives	accusatorial	accusatorially	accusatory	accusatrix	accusatrixes	accuse	accused	accuser	accusers	accuses	accusing	accusingly	accusive	accusor	accustom	accustomed	accustoming	accustoms	ace	aced	acerb	acerbate	acerbated	acerbates	acerbating	acerber	acerbest	acerbic	acerbities	acerbity	acerola	acerose	acerous	aces	acetaldehyde	acetaminophen	acetanilide	acetate	acetates	acetic	acetified	acetifies	acetify	acetifying	acetone	acetones	acetonic	acetylcholine	acetylene	acetylsalicylic	ache	ached	achene	achenes	achenial	aches	achier	achiest	achievable	achieve	achieved	achievement	achievements	achiever	achievers	achieves	achieving	achilles	achiness	aching	achingly	achoo	achordate	achromat	achromatic	achromatically	achromatism	achromats	achy	acid	acidhead	acidheads	acidic	acidifiable	acidification	acidified	acidifier	acidifiers	acidifies	acidify	acidifying	acidities	acidity	acidly	acidness	acidophilus	acidoses	acidosis	acidotic	acids	acidulate	acidulated	acidulates	acidulating	acidulation	acidulous	acidulously	acidulousness	acidy	acing	acknowledge	acknowledgeable	acknowledged	acknowledgedly	acknowledgement	acknowledgements	acknowledger	acknowledgers	acknowledges	acknowledging	acknowledgment	acknowledgments	aclu	acme	acmes	acne	acned	acnes	acoin	acolyte	acolytes	aconite	aconites	acorn	acorns	acoustic	acoustical	acoustically	acoustics	acquaint	acquaintance	acquaintances	acquaintanceship	acquaintanceships	acquainted	acquainting	acquaints	acquiesce	acquiesced	acquiescence	acquiescent	acquiescently	acquiesces	acquiescing	acquiesence	acquirable	acquire	acquired	acquirement	acquirements	acquirer	acquirers	acquires	acquiring	acquisition	acquisitions	acquisitive	acquisitively	acquisitiveness	acquit	acquits	acquittal	acquittals	acquitted	acquitter	acquitting	acre	acreage	acreages	acred	acres	acrid	acrider	acridest	acridities	acridity	acridly	acridness	acrimonies	acrimonious	acrimoniously	acrimoniousness	acrimony	acrobat	acrobatic	acrobatically	acrobatics	acrobats	acroliths	acromegalic	acromegalies	acromegaly	acronym	acronyms	acrophobia	acropolis	acropolises	across	acrostic	acrostically	acrostics	acrylate	acrylic	acrylics	act	actable	acted	actin	acting	actings	actinic	actinically	actinide	actinides	actinism	actinium	actiniums	action	actionability	actionable	actions	activate	activated	activates	activating	activation	activations	activator	activators	active	actively	activeness	actives	activism	activisms	activist	activistic	activists	activities	activity	actomyosin	actor	actorish	actors	actress	actresses	acts	actual	actualities	actuality	actualization	actualize	actualized	actualizes	actualizing	actually	actuarial	actuaries	actuary	actuate	actuated	actuates	actuating	actuation	actuator	actuators	acuities	acuity	acumen	acumens	acupuncture	acupuncturist	acupuncturists	acute	acutely	acuteness	acuter	acutes	acutest	ad	adage	adages	adagial	adagio	adagios	adam	adamance	adamances	adamancies	adamancy	adamant	adamantine	adamantly	adamants	adams	adapt	adaptability	adaptable	adaptableness	adaptation	adaptations	adapted	adapter	adapters	adapting	adaption	adaptions	adaptive	adaptively	adaptiveness	adaptometer	adaptor	adaptors	adapts	add	addable	addax	added	addedly	addend	addenda	addends	addendum	adder	adders	addible	addict	addicted	addicting	addiction	addictions	addictive	addictively	addictiveness	addictives	addicts	adding	addison	addition	additional	additionally	additions	additive	additives	addle	addled	addles	addling	address	addressability	addressable	addressed	addressee	addressees	addresser	addressers	addresses	addressing	addrest	adds	adduce	adduceable	adduced	adducers	adduces	adducing	adduct	adducted	adducting	adduction	adductor	adductors	adenine	adenoid	adenoidal	adenoidectomy	adenoidism	adenoiditis	adenoids	adenose	adenosine	adept	adepter	adeptest	adeptly	adeptness	adepts	adequacies	adequacy	adequate	adequately	adequateness	adequation	adeste	adhere	adhered	adherence	adherent	adherents	adherer	adherers	adheres	adhering	adhesion	adhesional	adhesions	adhesive	adhesively	adhesiveness	adhesives	adiabatic	adiabatically	adiathermancy	adieu	adieus	adieux	adios	adipose	adiposeness	adiposis	adiposities	adiposity	adit	adits	adj	adjacency	adjacent	adjacently	adjectival	adjectivally	adjective	adjectives	adjoin	adjoined	adjoining	adjoins	adjoint	adjoints	adjourn	adjourned	adjourning	adjournment	adjournments	adjourns	adjudge	adjudged	adjudges	adjudging	adjudicate	adjudicated	adjudicates	adjudicating	adjudication	adjudications	adjudicative	adjudicator	adjudicators	adjudicatory	adjudicature	adjunct	adjunctive	adjunctly	adjuncts	adjuration	adjurations	adjuratory	adjure	adjured	adjurer	adjurers	adjures	adjuring	adjuror	adjurors	adjust	adjustable	adjusted	adjuster	adjusters	adjusting	adjustment	adjustments	adjustor	adjustors	adjusts	adjutancy	adjutant	adjutants	adman	admen	admin	administer	administered	administerial	administering	administerings	administers	administrable	administrant	administrants	administrate	administrated	administrates	administrating	administration	administrational	administrations	administrative	administratively	administrator	administrators	administratrices	administratrix	adminstration	admirable	admirably	admiral	admirals	admiralship	admiralships	admiralties	admiralty	admiration	admirations	admire	admired	admirer	admirers	admires	admiring	admiringly	admissability	admissable	admissibility	admissible	admissibly	admission	admissions	admissive	admit	admits	admittance	admittances	admitted	admittedly	admitter	admitters	admitting	admix	admixed	admixes	admixing	admixt	admixture	admixtures	admonish	admonished	admonisher	admonishes	admonishing	admonishment	admonishments	admonition	admonitions	admonitory	ado	adobe	adobes	adolescence	adolescent	adolescently	adolescents	adolf	adolph	adonis	adopt	adoptabilities	adoptability	adoptable	adopted	adoptee	adoptees	adopter	adopters	adopting	adoption	adoptions	adoptive	adoptively	adopts	adorability	adorable	adorableness	adorably	adoration	adore	adored	adorer	adorers	adores	adoring	adorn	adorned	adorner	adorners	adorning	adornment	adornments	adorns	ados	adoze	adrenal	adrenalin	adrenaline	adrenals	adrenocortical	adriatic	adrift	adroit	adroiter	adroitest	adroitly	adroitness	ads	adsorb	adsorbable	adsorbate	adsorbates	adsorbed	adsorbent	adsorbents	adsorbing	adsorbs	adsorption	adsorptive	adsorptively	adsorptiveness	adulate	adulated	adulates	adulating	adulation	adulator	adulators	adulatory	adult	adulterant	adulterants	adulterate	adulterated	adulterates	adulterating	adulteration	adulterator	adulterators	adulterer	adulterers	adulteress	adulteresses	adulteries	adulterous	adulterously	adulterousness	adultery	adulthood	adultly	adultness	adults	adumbrate	adumbrated	adumbrates	adumbrating	adumbration	adumbrations	adumbrative	adumbratively	adv	advance	advanced	advancement	advancements	advancer	advancers	advances	advancing	advantage	advantaged	advantageous	advantageously	advantageousness	advantages	advantaging	advent	adventitious	adventitiously	adventitiousness	advents	adventure	adventured	adventurer	adventurers	adventures	adventuresome	adventuress	adventuresses	adventuring	adventurous	adventurously	adventurousness	adverb	adverbial	adverbially	adverbs	adversaries	adversary	adversative	adversatively	adverse	adversely	adverseness	adversities	adversity	advert	adverted	advertent	advertently	adverting	advertise	advertised	advertisement	advertisements	advertiser	advertisers	advertises	advertising	advertize	advertized	advertizement	advertizer	advertizes	advertizing	adverts	advice	advices	advisability	advisable	advisatory	advise	advised	advisedly	advisedness	advisee	advisees	advisement	adviser	advisers	advises	advising	advisor	advisories	advisors	advisory	advocacies	advocacy	advocate	advocated	advocates	advocating	advocator	advocatory	advt	adyta	adytum	adz	adzes	aegis	aegises	aelurophobia	aeolian	aeon	aeonian	aeonic	aeons	aerate	aerated	aerates	aerating	aeration	aerations	aerator	aerators	aerial	aerialist bur	burble	burbled	burbler	burblers	burbles	burblier	burbliest	burbling	burbly	burden	burdened	burdener	burdeners	burdening	burdens	burdensome	burdies	burdock	burdocks	bureau	bureaucracies	bureaucracy	bureaucrat	bureaucratic	bureaucratically	bureaucratism	bureaucratization	bureaucratize	bureaucratized	bureaucratizes	bureaucratizing	bureaucrats	bureaus	bureaux	burette	burettes	burg	burgee	burgees	burgeon	burgeoned	burgeoning	burgeons	burger	burgers	burgess	burgesses	burgh	burgher	burghers	burghs	burglar	burglaries	burglarious	burglariously	burglarize	burglarized	burglarizes	burglarizing	burglarproof	burglars	burglary	burgle	burgled	burgles	burgling	burgomaster	burgomasters	burgoo	burgoos	burgouts	burgs	burgundies	burgundy	burial	burials	buried	burier	buriers	buries	burin	burins	burke	burl	burlap	burlaps	burled	burler	burlesk	burlesks	burlesque	burlesqued	burlesques	burlesquing	burley	burleys	burlier	burliest	burlily	burliness	burling	burls	burly	burma	burmese	burn	burnable	burned	burner	burners	burnet	burnets	burnie	burnies	burning	burnings	burnish	burnished	burnisher	burnishers	burnishes	burnishing	burnoose	burnooses	burnouses	burnout	burnouts	burns	burnt	burp	burped	burping	burps	burr	burred	burrer	burrers	burrier	burring	burro	burros	burroughs	burrow	burrowed	burrower	burrowers	burrowing	burrows	burrs	burry	burs	bursa	bursae	bursal	bursar	bursarial	bursaries	bursars	bursarship	bursary	bursas	burse	burseeds	burses	bursitis	bursitises	burst	bursted	burster	bursters	bursting	bursts	burthen	burthens	burton	burtons	burundi	burundians	burweed	burweeds	bury	burying	bus	busbies	busboy	busboys	busby	bused	buses	bush	bushed	bushel	busheled	busheler	bushelers	busheling	bushelled	bushels	busher	bushers	bushes	bushfire	bushfires	bushido	bushidos	bushier	bushiest	bushily	bushing	bushings	bushman	bushmaster	bushmasters	bushmen	bushtit	bushtits	bushwack	bushwhack	bushwhacked	bushwhacker	bushwhackers	bushwhacking	bushwhacks	bushy	busied	busier	busies	busiest	busily	business	businesses	businesslike	businessman	businessmen	businesswoman	businesswomen	busing	busings	buskin	buskined	buskins	busman	busmen	buss	bussed	busses	bussing	bust	bustard	bustards	busted	buster	busters	bustier	bustiest	busting	bustle	bustled	bustler	bustlers	bustles	bustling	busts	busty	busy	busybodies	busybody	busying	busyness	busywork	busyworks	but	butane	butanes	butch	butcher	butchered	butcheries	butchering	butchers	butchery	butches	butler	butleries	butlers	butlery	buts	butt	butte	butted	butter	buttercup	buttercups	buttered	butterfat	butterfingered	butterfingers	butterfish	butterfishes	butterflies	butterfly	butterier	butteries	butteriest	buttering	buttermilk	butternut	butternuts	butters	butterscotch	buttery	buttes	butting	buttock	buttocks	button	buttoned	buttoner	buttoners	buttonhole	buttonholed	buttonholer	buttonholes	buttonholing	buttonhook	buttoning	buttons	buttony	buttress	buttressed	buttresses	buttressing	butts	butty	butyl	butyls	buxom	buxomer	buxomest	buxomly	buxomness	buy	buyable	buyer	buyers	buying	buys	buzz	buzzard	buzzards	buzzed	buzzer	buzzers	buzzes	buzzing	buzzword	buzzwords	bwana	bwanas	by	bye	byelorussia	byelorussian	byelorussians	byes	bygone	bygones	bylaw	bylaws	byline	bylined	byliner	byliners	bylines	bylining	bypass	bypassed	bypasses	bypassing	bypath	bypaths	byplay	byplays	byproduct	byproducts	byre	byres	byroad	byroads	byron	byronic	bystander	bystanders	bystreet	bystreets	byte	bytes	byway	byways	byword	bywords	byzantine	byzantium	ca	cab	cabal	cabala	cabalas	cabalism	cabalist	cabalistic	cabalists	caballed	caballero	caballeros	caballing	cabals	cabana	cabanas	cabaret	cabarets	cabbage	cabbaged	cabbages	cabbaging	cabbala	cabbalah	cabbalahs	cabbalas	cabbie	cabbies	cabby	cabdriver	caber	cabers	cabin	cabined	cabinet	cabinetmaker	cabinetmakers	cabinetmaking	cabinets	cabinetwork	cabining	cabins	cable	cabled	cablegram	cablegrams	cables	cablets	cableway	cableways	cabling	cabman	cabmen	cabob	cabobs	cabochon	cabochons	caboodle	caboodles	caboose	cabooses	cabot	cabriolet	cabriolets	cabs	cabstand	cabstands	cacao	cacaos	cacciatore	cachalot	cachalots	cache	cached	cachepot	cachepots	caches	cachet	cacheted	cacheting	cachets	caching	caciques	cackle	cackled	cackler	cacklers	cackles	cackling	cacodemonia	cacophonies	cacophonous	cacophonously	cacophony	cacti	cactoid	cactus	cactuses	cad	cadaver	cadaveric	cadaverous	cadaverously	cadavers	caddie	caddied	caddies	caddis	caddises	caddish	caddishly	caddishness	caddy	caddying	cadence	cadenced	cadences	cadencies	cadencing	cadency	cadent	cadenza	cadenzas	cades	cadet	cadets	cadetship	cadette	cadettes	cadge	cadged	cadger	cadgers	cadges	cadging	cadgy	cadillac	cadillacs	cadis	cadmic	cadmium	cadmiums	cadre	cadres	cads	caducei	caduceus	caduciaries	caecum	caesar	caesarean
	aerialists	aerially	aerials	aerie	aeried	aerier	aeries	aeriest	aerified	aerifies	aeriform	aerify	aerifying	aerily	aerobatics	aerobe	aerobes	aerobia	aerobic	aerobically	aerobics	aerobiology	aerodrome	aerodromes	aerodynamic	aerodynamical	aerodynamically	aerodynamics	aerodyne	aerofoil	aerofoils	aerogels	aerogram	aerograms	aerolite	aerolites	aerolith	aeroliths	aerological	aerologist	aerologists	aerology	aerometer	aeronaut	aeronautic	aeronautical	aeronautically	aeronautics	aeronauts	aerophobia	aeroplane	aerosol	aerosolization	aerosolize	aerosolized	aerosolizing	aerosols	aerospace	aerostat	aery
cerebellums	cerebra	cerebral	cerebrally	cerebrals	cerebrate	cerebrated	cerebrates	cerebrating	cerebration	cerebrations	cerebri	cerebric	cerebroid	cerebrospinal	cerebrovascular	cerebrum	cerebrums	cerecloth	cerecloths	cered	cerement	cerements	ceremonial	ceremonialism	ceremonialist	ceremonialists	ceremonially	ceremonials	ceremonies	ceremonious	ceremoniously	ceremoniousness	ceremony	cerenkov	ceres	cereus	cereuses	ceria	cerias	ceriphs	cerise	cerises	cerites	cerium	ceriums	cermet	cermets	cert	certain	certainest	certainly	certainness	certainties	certainty	certes	certifiable	certifiably	certificate	certificated	certificates	certificating	certification	certifications	certified	certifier	certifiers	certifies	certify	certifying	certitude	certitudes	cerulean	ceruleans	cerumen	ceruminous	cervantes	cervical	cervices	cervicitis	cervine	cervix	cervixes	cesarean	cesareans	cesarian	cesium	cesiums	cess	cessation	cessed	cesses	cessing	cession	cessions	cesspit	cesspits	cesspool	cesspools	cesura	cesurae	cesuras	cetacean	cetaceans	cetera	cetologies	cetology	ceylon	ceylonese	cgs	chablis	chaconne	chaconnes	chad	chadarim	chads	chafe	chafed	chafer	chafers	chafes	chaff	chaffed	chaffer	chaffered	chafferer	chafferers	chaffering	chaffers	chaffier	chaffiest	chaffinch	chaffinches	chaffing	chaffs	chaffy	chafing	chagrin	chagrined	chagrining	chagrinned	chagrinning	chagrins	chain	chained	chaines	chaining	chainlike	chainman	chainmen	chains	chair	chaired	chairing	chairladies	chairlady	chairman	chairmaned	chairmanned	chairmanning	chairmans	chairmanship	chairmanships	chairmen	chairperson	chairpersons	chairs	chairwoman	chairwomen	chaise	chaises	chalah	chalcedonic	chalcedonies	chalcedony	chalcopyrite	chaldron	chalet	chalets	chalice	chalices	chalk	chalkboard	chalkboards	chalked	chalkier	chalkiest	chalkiness	chalking	chalks	chalky	challah	challahs	challenge	challengeable	challenged	challenger	challengers	challenges	challenging	challengingly	challie	challies	challis	challises	challot	cham	chamber	chambered	chamberlain	chamberlains	chambermaid	chambermaids	chambers	chambray	chambrays	chameleon	chameleons	chamfer	chamfered	chamfering	chamfers	chamise	chamises	chamiso	chamisos	chammied	chammies	chamois	chamoised	chamoises	chamoising	chamoix	chamomile	champ	champagne	champagnes	champaign	champed	champer	champers	champing	champion	championed	championing	champions	championship	championships	champs	champy	chams	chance	chanced	chancel	chancelleries	chancellery	chancellor	chancellors	chancellorship	chancellorships	chancels	chanceman	chancemen	chancer	chanceries	chancering	chancery	chances	chancier	chanciest	chancily	chancing	chancre	chancres	chancroid	chancroids	chancy	chandelier	chandeliers	chandler	chandleries	chandlers	chandlery	chang	change	changeable	changed	changeful	changeless	changeling	changelings	changeover	changeovers	changer	changers	changes	changing	channel	channeled	channeling	channelization	channelize	channelized	channelizes	channelizing	channelled	channelling	channels	chanson	chansons	chant	chantage	chantages	chanted	chanter	chanters	chanteuse	chanteuses	chantey	chanteys	chanticleer	chanticleers	chanties	chanting	chantor	chantors	chantries	chantry	chants	chanty	chaos	chaoses	chaotic	chaotically	chaoticness	chap	chaparral	chaparrals	chapbook	chapbooks	chapeau	chapeaus	chapeaux	chapel	chapels	chaperon	chaperonage	chaperoned	chaperoning	chaperons	chapfallen	chaplain	chaplaincies	chaplaincy	chaplains	chaplet	chapleted	chaplets	chaplin	chapman	chapmen	chapped	chapping	chaps	chapt	chapter	chaptered	chaptering	chapters	char	character	characteristic	characteristically	characteristics	characterization	characterizations	characterize	characterized	characterizes	characterizing	characterless	characters	charactery	charade	charades	charbroil	charbroiled	charbroiling	charbroils	charcoal	charcoaled	charcoals	chard	chards	chare	chared	chares	charge	chargeable	charged	chargee	charger	chargers	charges	charging	charier	chariest	charily	chariness	charing	chariot	charioteer	charioteers	charioting	chariots	charism	charisma	charismas	charismatic	charisms	charitable	charitableness	charitably	charities	charity	charladies	charlady	charlatan	charlatanic	charlatanish	charlatanism	charlatanries	charlatanry	charlatans	charlemagne	charles	charleston	charlestons	charley	charlie	charlotte	charlottesville	charm	charmed	charmer	charmers	charming	charminger	charmingly	charms	charnel	charnels	charon	charred	charrier	charring	charros	charry	chars	chart	charted	charter	chartered	charterer	charterers	chartering	charters	charting	chartings	chartist	chartists	chartreuse	charts	charwoman	charwomen	chary	chase	chased	chaser	chasers	chases	chasing	chasings	chasm	chasmal	chasmed	chasmic	chasms	chasmy	chassed	chasses	chassis	chaste	chastely	chasten	chastened	chastener	chasteners	chasteness	chastening	chastens	chaster	chastest	chastise	chastised	chastisement	chastiser	chastisers	chastises	chastising	chastities	chastity	chasuble	chasubles	chat	chateau	chateaus	chateaux	chatelaine	chatelaines	chats	chattanooga	chatted	chattel	chattels	chatter	chatterbox	chatterboxes	chattered	chatterer	chatterers	chattering	chatters	chattery	chattier	chattiest	chattily	chattiness	chatting	chatty	chaucer	chaucerian	chaufers	chauffer	chauffers	chauffeur	chauffeured	chauffeuring	chauffeurs	chauffeuse	chaunters	chaunting	chauvinism	chauvinist	chauvinistic	chauvinistically	chauvinists	chaw	chawed	chawer	chawers	chawing	chaws	chayote	chayotes	cheap	cheapen	cheapened	cheapening	cheapens	cheaper	cheapest	cheapie	cheapies	cheapish	cheaply	cheapness	cheaps	cheapskate	cheapskates	cheat	cheated	cheater	cheateries	cheaters	cheatery	cheating	cheatingly	cheats	check	checkable	checkbook	checkbooks	checked	checker	checkerboard	checkerboards	checkered	checkering	checkers	checking	checkless	checklist	checklists	checkmate	checkmated	checkmates	checkmating	checkoff	checkoffs	checkout	checkouts	checkpoint	checkpoints	checkroom	checkrooms	checkrowed	checks	checksum	checksums	checkup	checkups	chedar	cheddar	cheddars	cheek	cheekbone	cheekbones	cheeked	cheekful	cheekfuls	cheekier	cheekiest	cheekily	cheekiness	cheeking	cheeks	cheeky	cheep	cheeped	cheeper	cheepers	cheeping	cheeps	cheer	cheered	cheerer	cheerers	cheerful	cheerfully	cheerfulness	cheerier	cheeriest	cheerily	cheeriness	cheering	cheerio	cheerios	cheerleader	cheerleaders	cheerless	cheerlessly	cheerlessness	cheers	cheery	cheese	cheeseburger	cheeseburgers	cheesecake	cheesecakes	cheesecloth	cheesecloths	cheesed	cheeseparing	cheeses	cheesier	cheesiest	cheesily	cheesiness	cheesing	cheesy	cheetah	cheetahs	chef	chefdom	chefdoms	chefs	chekhov	chela	chelas	chelate	chelated	chelates	chelating	chelation	chelator	chelators	chem	chemical	chemically	chemicals	chemics	chemin	chemins	chemise	chemises	chemism	chemisms	chemist	chemistries	chemistry	chemists	chemoreception	chemoreceptive	chemoreceptivities	chemoreceptivity	chemoreceptor	chemosensitive	chemosensitivities	chemosensitivity	chemosterilant	chemosterilants	chemosurgery	chemotherapeutic	chemotherapeutical	chemotherapeutically	chemotherapeuticness	chemotherapeutics	chemotherapies	chemotherapist	chemotherapists	chemotherapy	chemotropism	chemurgic	chemurgy	chenille	chenilles	cheque	chequer	chequered	chequering	chequers	cheques	cherchez	cherenkov	cherish	cherished	cherisher	cherishers	cherishes	cherishing	cherokee	cherokees	cheroot	cheroots	cherries	cherry	cherrystone	cherrystones	chert	chertier	cherty	cherub	cherubic	cherubical	cherubically	cherubim	cherubs	chervil	chervils	chesapeake	chess	chessboard	chessboards	chesses	chessman	chessmen	chest	chested	chesterfield	chesterfields	chestful	chestfuls	chestier	chestiest	chestnut	chestnuts	chests	chesty	cheval	chevalier	chevaliers	chevaux	chevied	chevies	cheviot	chevrolet	chevrolets	chevron	chevrons	chevy	chevying	chew	chewable	chewed	chewer	chewers	chewier	chewiest	chewing	chews	chewy	cheyenne	cheyennes	chez	chi	chia	chianti	chiao	chiaroscuro	chiaroscuros	chias	chiasma	chiasms	chic	chicago	chicagoan	chicagoans	chicane	chicaned	chicaner	chicaneries	chicaners	chicanery	chicanes	chicaning	chicano	chicanos	chiccory	chichi	chichis	chick	chickadee	chickadees	chickasaw	chickasaws	chicken	chickened	chickening	chickens	chickpea	chickpeas	chicks	chickweed	chickweeds	chicle	chicles	chicly	chicness	chico	chicories	chicory	chicos	chics	chid	chidden	chide	chided	chider	chiders	chides	chiding	chidingly	chief	chiefdom	chiefdoms	chiefer	chiefest	chiefly	chiefs	chieftain	chieftaincies	chieftaincy	chieftains	chieftainship	chieftainships	chiel	chields	chiels	chiffon	chiffonier	chiffoniers	chiffonnier	chiffonniers	chiffons	chifforobe	chifforobes	chigger	chiggers	chignon	chignons	chigoe	chigoes	chihuahua	chihuahuas	chilblain	chilblains	child	childbearing	childbed	childbeds	childbirth	childbirths	childhood	childhoods	childing	childish	childishly	childishness	childless	childlessness	childliest	childlike	childly	childproof	children	chile	chilean	chileans	chiles	chili	chilies	chill	chilled	chiller	chillers	chillest	chilli	chillier	chillies	chilliest	chillily	chilliness	chilling	chillingly	chillness	chills	chillum	chillums	chilly	chimaera	chimaeras	chimbley	chimbly	chime	chimed	chimer	chimera	chimeras	chimeric	chimerical	chimers	chimes	chiming	chimley	chimney	chimneys	chimp	chimpanzee	chimpanzees	chimps	chin	china	chinas	chinatown	chinaware	chinbone	chinch	chinches	chinchiest	chinchilla	chinchillas	chinchy	chine	chines	chinese	chining	chink	chinked	chinkier	chinkiest	chinking	chinks	chinky	chinless	chinned	chinning	chino	chinone	chinook	chinooks	chinos	chins	chints	chintz	chintzes	chintzier	chintziest	chintzy	chip	chipmunk	chipmunks	chipped	chipper	chippered	chippering	chippers	chippewa	chippewas	chippie	chippies	chipping	chippy	chips	chirk	chirked	chirker	chirks	chirographer	chirographers	chirographic	chirographical	chirography	chirologies	chiromancy	chiropodist	chiropodists	chiropody	chiropractic	chiropractor	chiropractors	chiropraxis	chirp	chirped	chirper	chirpers	chirpier	chirpiest	chirpily	chirping	chirps	chirpy	chirrup	chirruped	chirruping	chirrups	chirrupy	chisel	chiseled	chiseler	chiselers	chiseling	chiselled	chiseller	chisellers	chiselling	chisels	chit	chitchat	chitchats	chitin	chitinous	chitins	chitlin	chitling	chitlings	chitlins	chiton	chitons	chits	chitter	chittered	chittering	chitterlings	chitters	chitties	chivalric	chivalries	chivalrous	chivalrously	chivalrousness	chivalry	chivaree	chive	chives	chivied	chivies	chivvied	chivvies	chivvy	chivvying	chivy	chivying	chloral	chlorals	chlorate	chlorates	chlordane	chloric	chlorid	chloride	chlorides	chlorin	chlorinate	chlorinated	chlorinates	chlorinating	chlorination	chlorinator	chlorinators	chlorine	chlorines	chlorite	chlorites	chloroform	chloroformed	chloroforming	chloroforms	chlorophyll	chloroplast	chlorosis	chlorotic	chlorous	chlorpromazine	chm	chock	chocked	chocking	chocks	chocolate	chocolates	choctaw	choctaws	choice	choicely	choiceness	choicer	choices	choicest	choir	choirboy	choirboys	choired	choiring	choirmaster	choirmasters	choirs	choke	choked	choker	chokers	chokes	chokey	chokier	choking	choky	choler	cholera	choleras	choleric	cholers	cholesterol	choline	cholla	chollas	chomp	chomped	chomping	chomps	chondrite	chondrites	chondrule	chondrules	choose	chooser	choosers	chooses	choosey	choosier	choosiest	choosiness	choosing	choosy	chop	chophouse	chophouses	chopin	chopins	chopped	chopper	choppers	choppier	choppiest	choppily	choppiness	chopping	choppy	chops	chopstick	chopsticks	choral	chorale	chorales	chorally	chorals	chord	chordal	chordate	chordates	chorded	chording	chords	chore	chorea	choreal	choreas	chored	choreic	choreman	choremen	choreograph	choreographed	choreographer	choreographers	choreographic	choreographically	choreographing	choreographs	choreography	chores	chorial	choric	chorine	chorines	choring	chorion	chorister	choristers	chorizo	chorizos	choroid	choroids	chortle	chortled	chortler	chortlers	chortles	chortling	chorus	chorused	choruses	chorusing	chorussed	chorusses	chorussing	chose	chosen	choses	chou	chow	chowchow	chowchows	chowder	chowdered	chowdering	chowders	chowed	chowing	chows	chowtime	chowtimes	chrism	chrisms	christ	christen	christendom	christened	christener	christeners	christening	christens	christian	christianity	christianize	christianized	christianizes	christianizing	christians	christie	christies	christine	christly	christmas	christmases	christmastide	christopher	christs	christy	chroma	chromas	chromate	chromatic	chromatically	chromaticism	chromaticity	chromatogram	chromatograph	chromatographic	chromatographically	chromatography	chrome	chromed	chromes	chromic	chromide	chroming	chromite	chromium	chromiums	chromize	chromized	chromizes	chromizing	chromo	chromos	chromosomal	chromosomally	chromosome	chromosomes
china cerebellums	cerebra	cerebral	cerebrally	cerebrals	cerebrate	cerebrated	cerebrates	cerebrating	cerebration	cerebrations	cerebri	cerebric	cerebroid	cerebrospinal	cerebrovascular	cerebrum	cerebrums	cerecloth	cerecloths	cered	cerement	cerements	ceremonial	ceremonialism	ceremonialist	ceremonialists	ceremonially	ceremonials	ceremonies	ceremonious	ceremoniously	ceremoniousness	ceremony	cerenkov	ceres	cereus	cereuses	ceria	cerias	ceriphs	cerise	cerises	cerites	cerium	ceriums	cermet	cermets	cert	certain	certainest	certainly	certainness	certainties	certainty	certes	certifiable	certifiably	certificate	certificated	certificates	certificating	certification	certifications	certified	certifier	certifiers	certifies	certify	certifying	certitude	certitudes	cerulean	ceruleans	cerumen	ceruminous	cervantes	cervical	cervices	cervicitis	cervine	cervix	cervixes	cesarean	cesareans	cesarian	cesium	cesiums	cess	cessation	cessed	cesses	cessing	cession	cessions	cesspit	cesspits	cesspool	cesspools	cesura	cesurae	cesuras	cetacean	cetaceans	cetera	cetologies	cetology	ceylon	ceylonese	cgs	chablis	chaconne	chaconnes	chad	chadarim	chads	chafe	chafed	chafer	chafers	chafes	chaff	chaffed	chaffer	chaffered	chafferer	chafferers	chaffering	chaffers	chaffier	chaffiest	chaffinch	chaffinches	chaffing	chaffs	chaffy	chafing	chagrin	chagrined	chagrining	chagrinned	chagrinning	chagrins	chain	chained	chaines	chaining	chainlike	chainman	chainmen	chains	chair	chaired	chairing	chairladies	chairlady	chairman	chairmaned	chairmanned	chairmanning	chairmans	chairmanship	chairmanships	chairmen	chairperson	chairpersons	chairs	chairwoman	chairwomen	chaise	chaises	chalah	chalcedonic	chalcedonies	chalcedony	chalcopyrite	chaldron	chalet	chalets	chalice	chalices	chalk	chalkboard	chalkboards	chalked	chalkier	chalkiest	chalkiness	chalking	chalks	chalky	challah	challahs	challenge	challengeable	challenged	challenger	challengers	challenges	challenging	challengingly	challie	challies	challis	challises	challot	cham	chamber	chambered	chamberlain	chamberlains	chambermaid	chambermaids	chambers	chambray	chambrays	chameleon	chameleons	chamfer	chamfered	chamfering	chamfers	chamise	chamises	chamiso	chamisos	chammied	chammies	chamois	chamoised	chamoises	chamoising	chamoix	chamomile	champ	champagne	champagnes	champaign	champed	champer	champers	champing	champion	championed	championing	champions	championship	championships	champs	champy	chams	chance	chanced	chancel	chancelleries	chancellery	chancellor	chancellors	chancellorship	chancellorships	chancels	chanceman	chancemen	chancer	chanceries	chancering	chancery	chances	chancier	chanciest	chancily	chancing	chancre	chancres	chancroid	chancroids	chancy	chandelier	chandeliers	chandler	chandleries	chandlers	chandlery	chang	change	changeable	changed	changeful	changeless	changeling	changelings	changeover	changeovers	changer	changers	changes	changing	channel	channeled	channeling	channelization	channelize	channelized	channelizes	channelizing	channelled	channelling	channels	chanson	chansons	chant	chantage	chantages	chanted	chanter	chanters	chanteuse	chanteuses	chantey	chanteys	chanticleer	chanticleers	chanties	chanting	chantor	chantors	chantries	chantry	chants	chanty	chaos	chaoses	chaotic	chaotically	chaoticness	chap	chaparral	chaparrals	chapbook	chapbooks	chapeau	chapeaus	chapeaux	chapel	chapels	chaperon	chaperonage	chaperoned	chaperoning	chaperons	chapfallen	chaplain	chaplaincies	chaplaincy	chaplains	chaplet	chapleted	chaplets	chaplin	chapman	chapmen	chapped	chapping	chaps	chapt	chapter	chaptered	chaptering	chapters	char	character	characteristic	characteristically	characteristics	characterization	characterizations	characterize	characterized	characterizes	characterizing	characterless	characters	charactery	charade	charades	charbroil	charbroiled	charbroiling	charbroils	charcoal	charcoaled	charcoals	chard	chards	chare	chared	chares	charge	chargeable	charged	chargee	charger	chargers	charges	charging	charier	chariest	charily	chariness	charing	chariot	charioteer	charioteers	charioting	chariots	charism	charisma	charismas	charismatic	charisms	charitable	charitableness	charitably	charities	charity	charladies	charlady	charlatan	charlatanic	charlatanish	charlatanism	charlatanries	charlatanry	charlatans	charlemagne	charles	charleston	charlestons	charley	charlie	charlotte	charlottesville	charm	charmed	charmer	charmers	charming	charminger	charmingly	charms	charnel	charnels	charon	charred	charrier	charring	charros	charry	chars	chart	charted	charter	chartered	charterer	charterers	chartering	charters	charting	chartings	chartist	chartists	chartreuse	charts	charwoman	charwomen	chary	chase	chased	chaser	chasers	chases	chasing	chasings	chasm	chasmal	chasmed	chasmic	chasms	chasmy	chassed	chasses	chassis	chaste	chastely	chasten	chastened	chastener	chasteners	chasteness	chastening	chastens	chaster	chastest	chastise	chastised	chastisement	chastiser	chastisers	chastises	chastising	chastities	chastity	chasuble	chasubles	chat	chateau	chateaus	chateaux	chatelaine	chatelaines	chats	chattanooga	chatted	chattel	chattels	chatter	chatterbox	chatterboxes	chattered	chatterer	chatterers	chattering	chatters	chattery	chattier	chattiest	chattily	chattiness	chatting	chatty	chaucer	chaucerian	chaufers	chauffer	chauffers	chauffeur	chauffeured	chauffeuring	chauffeurs	chauffeuse	chaunters	chaunting	chauvinism	chauvinist	chauvinistic	chauvinistically	chauvinists	chaw	chawed	chawer	chawers	chawing	chaws	chayote	chayotes	cheap	cheapen	cheapened	cheapening	cheapens	cheaper	cheapest	cheapie	cheapies	cheapish	cheaply	cheapness	cheaps	cheapskate	cheapskates	cheat	cheated	cheater	cheateries	cheaters	cheatery	cheating	cheatingly	cheats	check	checkable	checkbook	checkbooks	checked	checker	checkerboard	checkerboards	checkered	checkering	checkers	checking	checkless	checklist	checklists	checkmate	checkmated	checkmates	checkmating	checkoff	checkoffs	checkout	checkouts	checkpoint	checkpoints	checkroom	checkrooms	checkrowed	checks	checksum	checksums	checkup	checkups	chedar	cheddar	cheddars	cheek	cheekbone	cheekbones	cheeked	cheekful	cheekfuls	cheekier	cheekiest	cheekily	cheekiness	cheeking	cheeks	cheeky	cheep	cheeped	cheeper	cheepers	cheeping	cheeps	cheer	cheered	cheerer	cheerers	cheerful	cheerfully	cheerfulness	cheerier	cheeriest	cheerily	cheeriness	cheering	cheerio	cheerios	cheerleader	cheerleaders	cheerless	cheerlessly	cheerlessness	cheers	cheery	cheese	cheeseburger	cheeseburgers	cheesecake	cheesecakes	cheesecloth	cheesecloths	cheesed	cheeseparing	cheeses	cheesier	cheesiest	cheesily	cheesiness	cheesing	cheesy	cheetah	cheetahs	chef	chefdom	chefdoms	chefs	chekhov	chela	chelas	chelate	chelated	chelates	chelating	chelation	chelator	chelators	chem	chemical	chemically	chemicals	chemics	chemin	chemins	chemise	chemises	chemism	chemisms	chemist	chemistries	chemistry	chemists	chemoreception	chemoreceptive	chemoreceptivities	chemoreceptivity	chemoreceptor	chemosensitive	chemosensitivities	chemosensitivity	chemosterilant	chemosterilants	chemosurgery	chemotherapeutic	chemotherapeutical	chemotherapeutically	chemotherapeuticness	chemotherapeutics	chemotherapies	chemotherapist	chemotherapists	chemotherapy	chemotropism	chemurgic	chemurgy	chenille	chenilles	cheque	chequer	chequered	chequering	chequers	cheques	cherchez	cherenkov	cherish	cherished	cherisher	cherishers	cherishes	cherishing	cherokee	cherokees	cheroot	cheroots	cherries	cherry	cherrystone	cherrystones	chert	chertier	cherty	cherub	cherubic	cherubical	cherubically	cherubim	cherubs	chervil	chervils	chesapeake	chess	chessboard	chessboards	chesses	chessman	chessmen	chest	chested	chesterfield	chesterfields	chestful	chestfuls	chestier	chestiest	chestnut	chestnuts	chests	chesty	cheval	chevalier	chevaliers	chevaux	chevied	chevies	cheviot	chevrolet	chevrolets	chevron	chevrons	chevy	chevying	chew	chewable	chewed	chewer	chewers	chewier	chewiest	chewing	chews	chewy	cheyenne	cheyennes	chez	chi	chia	chianti	chiao	chiaroscuro	chiaroscuros	chias	chiasma	chiasms	chic	chicago	chicagoan	chicagoans	chicane	chicaned	chicaner	chicaneries	chicaners	chicanery	chicanes	chicaning	chicano	chicanos	chiccory	chichi	chichis	chick	chickadee	chickadees	chickasaw	chickasaws	chicken	chickened	chickening	chickens	chickpea	chickpeas	chicks	chickweed	chickweeds	chicle	chicles	chicly	chicness	chico	chicories	chicory	chicos	chics	chid	chidden	chide	chided	chider	chiders	chides	chiding	chidingly	chief	chiefdom	chiefdoms	chiefer	chiefest	chiefly	chiefs	chieftain	chieftaincies	chieftaincy	chieftains	chieftainship	chieftainships	chiel	chields	chiels	chiffon	chiffonier	chiffoniers	chiffonnier	chiffonniers	chiffons	chifforobe	chifforobes	chigger	chiggers	chignon	chignons	chigoe	chigoes	chihuahua	chihuahuas	chilblain	chilblains	child	childbearing	childbed	childbeds	childbirth	childbirths	childhood	childhoods	childing	childish	childishly	childishness	childless	childlessness	childliest	childlike	childly	childproof	children	chile	chilean	chileans	chiles	chili	chilies	chill	chilled	chiller	chillers	chillest	chilli	chillier	chillies	chilliest	chillily	chilliness	chilling	chillingly	chillness	chills	chillum	chillums	chilly	chimaera	chimaeras	chimbley	chimbly	chime	chimed	chimer	chimera	chimeras	chimeric	chimerical	chimers	chimes	chiming	chimley	chimney	chimneys	chimp	chimpanzee	chimpanzees	chimps	chin	china	chinas	chinatown	chinaware	chinbone	chinch	chinches	chinchiest	chinchilla	chinchillas	chinchy	chine	chines	chinese	chining	chink	chinked	chinkier	chinkiest	chinking	chinks	chinky	chinless	chinned	chinning	chino	chinone	chinook	chinooks	chinos	chins	chints	chintz	chintzes	chintzier	chintziest	chintzy	chip	chipmunk	chipmunks	chipped	chipper	chippered	chippering	chippers	chippewa	chippewas	chippie	chippies	chipping	chippy	chips	chirk	chirked	chirker	chirks	chirographer	chirographers	chirographic	chirographical	chirography	chirologies	chiromancy	chiropodist	chiropodists	chiropody	chiropractic	chiropractor	chiropractors	chiropraxis	chirp	chirped	chirper	chirpers	chirpier	chirpiest	chirpily	chirping	chirps	chirpy	chirrup	chirruped	chirruping	chirrups	chirrupy	chisel	chiseled	chiseler	chiselers	chiseling	chiselled	chiseller	chisellers	chiselling	chisels	chit	chitchat	chitchats	chitin	chitinous	chitins	chitlin	chitling	chitlings	chitlins	chiton	chitons	chits	chitter	chittered	chittering	chitterlings	chitters	chitties	chivalric	chivalries	chivalrous	chivalrously	chivalrousness	chivalry	chivaree	chive	chives	chivied	chivies	chivvied	chivvies	chivvy	chivvying	chivy	chivying	chloral	chlorals	chlorate	chlorates	chlordane	chloric	chlorid	chloride	chlorides	chlorin	chlorinate	chlorinated	chlorinates	chlorinating	chlorination	chlorinator	chlorinators	chlorine	chlorines	chlorite	chlorites	chloroform	chloroformed	chloroforming	chloroforms	chlorophyll	chloroplast	chlorosis	chlorotic	chlorous	chlorpromazine	chm	chock	chocked	chocking	chocks	chocolate	chocolates	choctaw	choctaws	choice	choicely	choiceness	choicer	choices	choicest	choir	choirboy	choirboys	choired	choiring	choirmaster	choirmasters	choirs	choke	choked	choker	chokers	chokes	chokey	chokier	choking	choky	choler	cholera	choleras	choleric	cholers	cholesterol	choline	cholla	chollas	chomp	chomped	chomping	chomps	chondrite	chondrites	chondrule	chondrules	choose	chooser	choosers	chooses	choosey	choosier	choosiest	choosiness	choosing	choosy	chop	chophouse	chophouses	chopin	chopins	chopped	chopper	choppers	choppier	choppiest	choppily	choppiness	chopping	choppy	chops	chopstick	chopsticks	choral	chorale	chorales	chorally	chorals	chord	chordal	chordate	chordates	chorded	chording	chords	chore	chorea	choreal	choreas	chored	choreic	choreman	choremen	choreograph	choreographed	choreographer	choreographers	choreographic	choreographically	choreographing	choreographs	choreography	chores	chorial	choric	chorine	chorines	choring	chorion	chorister	choristers	chorizo	chorizos	choroid	choroids	chortle	chortled	chortler	chortlers	chortles	chortling	chorus	chorused	choruses	chorusing	chorussed	chorusses	chorussing	chose	chosen	choses	chou	chow	chowchow	chowchows	chowder	chowdered	chowdering	chowders	chowed	chowing	chows	chowtime	chowtimes	chrism	chrisms	christ	christen	christendom	christened	christener	christeners	christening	christens	christian	christianity	christianize	christianized	christianizes	christianizing	christians	christie	christies	christine	christly	christmas	christmases	christmastide	christopher clerihews	clerk	clerkdom	clerkdoms	clerked	clerking	clerkish	clerklier	clerkliest	clerkly	clerks	clerkship	clerkships	cleveland	clever	cleverer	cleverest	cleverish	cleverly	cleverness	clevis	clevises	clew	clewed	clews	cliche	cliched	cliches	click	clicked	clicker	clickers	clicking	clicks	client	cliental	clientele	clienteles	clientless	clients	cliff	cliffhanger	cliffhangers	cliffhanging	cliffier	cliffiest	cliffs	cliffy	clift	clifts	climacteric	climacterics	climactic	climactically	climatal	climate	climates	climatic	climatical	climatically	climatologic	climatological	climatologically	climatologist	climatologists	climatology	climatotherapies	climatotherapy	climax	climaxed	climaxes	climaxing	climb	climbable	climbed	climber	climbers	climbing	climbs	clime	climes	clinch	clinched	clincher	clinchers	clinches	clinching	cline	cling	clinged	clinger	clingers	clingier	clingiest	clinging	clings	clingstone	clingstones	clingy	clinic	clinical	clinically	clinician	clinicians	clinics	clink	clinked	clinker	clinkered	clinkering	clinkers	clinking	clinks	clip	clipboard	clipboards	clipped	clipper	clippers	clipping	clippings	clips	clipsheet	clipsheets	clipt	clique	cliqued	cliques	cliquey	cliquier	cliquiest	cliquing	cliquish	cliquishly	cliquishness	cliquy	clitoral	clitoric	clitoridean	clitoridectomies	clitoridectomy	clitoris	clitorises	cloaca	cloacal	cloak	cloaked	cloaking	cloakroom	cloakrooms	cloaks	clobber	clobbered	clobbering	clobbers	cloche	cloches	clock	clocked	clocker	clockers	clocking	clockings	clocks	clockwise	clockwork	clockworks	clod	cloddier	cloddiest	cloddish	cloddishness	cloddy	clodhopper	clodhoppers	clodhopping	clodpate	clodpole	clodpoll	clods	clog	clogged	cloggier	cloggiest	clogging	cloggy	clogs	cloisonne	cloister	cloistered	cloistering	cloisters	cloistral	clomb	clomp	clomped	clomping	clomps	clonal	clonally	clone	cloned	clones	clonic	cloning	clonism	clonk	clonked	clonking	clonks	clop	clopped	clopping	clops	closable	close	closeable	closed	closefisted	closefitting	closely	closemouthed	closeness	closeout	closeouts	closer	closers	closes	closest	closet	closeted	closeting	closets	closeup	closeups	closing	closings	closure	closured	closures	closuring	clot	cloth	clothbound	clothe	clothed	clothes	clotheshorse	clotheshorses	clothesline	clotheslines	clothespin	clothespins	clothespress	clothespresses	clothier	clothiers	clothing	clothings	cloths	clots	clotted	clotting	clotty	cloture	clotured	clotures	cloturing	cloud	cloudburst	cloudbursts	clouded	cloudier	cloudiest	cloudily	cloudiness	clouding	cloudless	cloudlet	cloudlets	cloudlike	clouds	cloudy	clout	clouted	clouter	clouters	clouting	clouts	clove	cloven	clover	cloverleaf	cloverleaves	clovers	cloves	clown	clowned	clowneries	clownery	clowning	clownish	clownishly	clownishness	clowns	cloy	cloyed	cloying	cloys	club	clubable	clubbed	clubber	clubbers	clubbier	clubbiest	clubbing	clubby	clubfeet	clubfoot	clubfooted	clubhand	clubhauled	clubhouse	clubhouses	clubman	clubmen	clubrooms	clubroots	clubs	cluck	clucked	clucking	clucks	clue	clued	clueing	clues	cluing	clump	clumped	clumpier	clumpiest	clumping	clumpish	clumps	clumpy	clumsier	clumsiest	clumsily	clumsiness	clumsy	clung	clunk	clunked	clunker	clunkers	clunking	clunks	cluster	clustered	clustering	clusters	clustery	clutch	clutched	clutches	clutching	clutchy	clutter	cluttered	cluttering	clutters	clyster	cmdg	co	coach	coached	coacher	coachers	coaches	coaching	coachman	coachmen	coachwork	coact	coacted	coacting	coaction	coacts	coadjutor	coadjutors	coadmit	coaeval	coaevals	coagency	coagent	coagents	coagula	coagulability	coagulable	coagulant	coagulants	coagulate	coagulated	coagulates	coagulating	coagulation	coagulations	coagulative	coagulator	coagulators	coagulometer	coagulum	coal	coalbin	coalbins	coalbox	coalboxes	coaled	coaler	coalers	coalesce	coalesced	coalescence	coalescent	coalesces	coalescing	coalfish	coalhole	coalholes	coalified	coalifies	coalify	coaling	coalition	coalitional	coalitioner	coalitionist	coalitions	coalless	coalpit	coalpits	coals	coalsack	coalsacks	coalshed	coalsheds	coalyard	coalyards	coaming	coamings	coapts	coarse	coarsely	coarsen	coarsened	coarseness	coarsening	coarsens	coarser	coarsest	coast	coastal	coasted	coaster	coasters	coastguardsman	coastguardsmen	coasting	coastings	coastline	coastlines	coasts	coastward	coastwise	coat	coated	coatee	coater	coaters	coati	coating	coatings	coatis	coatless	coatrack	coatracks	coatroom	coatrooms	coats	coattail	coattails	coauthered	coauthor	coauthors	coax	coaxal	coaxed	coaxer	coaxers	coaxes	coaxial	coaxially	coaxing	coaxingly	cob	cobalt	cobaltic	cobalts	cobber	cobbers	cobbier	cobble	cobbled	cobbler	cobblers	cobbles	cobblestone	cobblestones	cobbling	cobby	cobnut	cobol	cobra	cobras	cobs	cobweb	cobwebbed	cobwebbier	cobwebbing	cobwebby	cobwebs	cocain	cocaine	cocaines	cocainism	cocainize	cocainized	cocains	cocas	cocci	coccus	coccygeal	coccyges	coccyx	coccyxes	cochaired	cochairing	cochairman	cochairmen	cochairs	cochineal	cochlea	cochleae	cochlear	cochleas	cock	cockade	cockaded	cockades	cockamamie	cockatoo	cockatoos	cockatrice	cockatrices	cockbilled	cockcrow	cockcrows	cocked	cocker	cockerel	cockerels	cockers	cockeye	cockeyed	cockeyes	cockfight	cockfights	cockhorse	cockhorses	cockier	cockiest	cockily	cockiness	cocking	cockish	cockle	cockled	cockles	cockleshell	cockleshells	cockney	cockneys	cockpit	cockpits	cockroach	cockroaches	cocks	cockscomb	cockscombs	cockspurs	cocksure	cocktail	cocktailed	cocktails	cockup	cockups	cocky	coco	cocoa	cocoanut	cocoanuts	cocoas	cocobolo	cocomat	cocomats	coconspirator	coconut	coconuts	cocoon	cocooned	cocooning	cocoons	cocos	cod	coda	codable	codal	codas	codder	codders	coddle	coddled	coddler	coddlers	coddles	coddling	code	coded	codefendant	codefendants	codein	codeine	codeines	codeins	codeless	coder	coders	codes	codeword	codex	codfish	codfishes	codger	codgers	codices	codicil	codicils	codification	codifications	codified	codifier	codifiers	codifies	codify	codifying	coding	codings	codling	codlings	codon	codons	codpiece	codpieces	cods	coed	coeditor	coeditors	coeds	coeducation	coeducational	coeducationally	coefficient	coefficients	coelenterate	coelenterates	coempt	coempts	coenact	coenamored	coenzyme	coequal	coequality	coequally	coequals	coequate	coequating	coerce	coerced	coercer	coercers	coerces	coercible	coercing	coercion	coercions	coercive	coercively	coerciveness	coeval	coevally	coevals	coexist	coexisted	coexistence	coexistent	coexisting	coexists	coextended	coextensive	coextensively	cofeature	cofeatures	coffee	coffeecake	coffeecakes	coffeehouse	coffeehouses	coffeepot	coffeepots	coffees	coffer	cofferdam	cofferdams	coffered	coffering	coffers	coffin	coffined	coffing	coffining	coffins	coffs	cog	cogence	cogences	cogencies	cogency	cogent	cogently	cogged	cogging	cogitate	cogitated	cogitates	cogitating	cogitation	cogitations	cogitative	cogitator	cogitators	cogito	cogitos	cognac	cognacs	cognate	cognates	cognati	cognation	cognisable	cognisance	cognise	cognised	cognises	cognising	cognition	cognitional	cognitive	cognizable	cognizably	cognizance	cognizant	cognize	cognized	cognizer	cognizers	cognizes	cognizing	cognomen	cognomens	cognomina	cognoscente	cognoscenti	cognoscing	cogs	cogway	cogwheel	cogwheels	cohabit	cohabitant	cohabitation	cohabited	cohabiting	cohabits	coheir	coheirs	cohen	cohere	cohered	coherence	coherency	coherent	coherently	coherer	coherers	coheres	cohering	cohesion	cohesions	cohesive	cohesively	cohesiveness	coho	cohort	cohorts	cohos	cohosh	cohoshes	coif	coifed	coiffed	coiffes	coiffeur	coiffeurs	coiffeuse	coiffeuses	coiffing	coiffure	coiffured	coiffures	coiffuring	coifing	coifs	coign	coigne	coigns	coil	coiled	coiler	coilers	coiling	coils	coin	coinable	coinage	coinages	coincide	coincided	coincidence	coincidences	coincident	coincidental	coincidentally	coincides	coinciding	coined	coiner	coiners	coinferred	coinhering	coining	coins	coinsurance	coinsured	coinsurer	coinsures	coinsuring	cointerred	coir	coirs	coital	coitally	coition	coitional	coitions	coitophobia	coitus	coituses	coke	coked	cokes	coking	col	cola	colander	colanders	colas	cold	colder	coldest	coldish	coldly	coldness	colds	cole	coles	coleslaw	coleslaws	coleus	coleuses	colewort	colic	colicky	colics	coliform	coliforms	colin	colinear	coliseum	coliseums	colitic	colitis	colitises	coll	collaborate	collaborated	collaborates	collaborating	collaboration	collaborationism	collaborationist	collaborationists	collaborations	collaborative	collaborator	collaborators	collage	collagen	collagens	collages	collapse	collapsed	collapses	collapsibility	collapsible	collapsing	collar	collarbone	collarbones	collard	collards	collared	collaring	collarless	collars	collat	collate	collated	collateral	collateralizing	collaterally	collaterals	collates	collating	collation	collations	collator	collators	colleague	colleagues	collect	collectable	collectables	collected	collectedly	collectible	collectibles	collecting	collection	collections	collective	collectively	collectives	collectivism	collectivist	collectivists	collectivize	collectivized	collectivizes	collectivizing	collector	collectors	collects	colleen	colleens	college	colleger	colleges	collegia	collegial	collegiality	collegially	collegian	collegians	collegiate	collegium	collegiums	colleted	collets	collide	collided	collides	colliding	collie	collied	collier	collieries	colliers	colliery	collies	collimate	collimating	collimation	collinear	collins	collinses	collision	collisions	collocate	collocated	collocates	collocating	collocation	collocations	collodion	collodium	colloid	colloidal	colloids	collop	collops	colloq	colloquia	colloquial	colloquialism	colloquialisms	colloquially	colloquies	colloquium	colloquiums	colloquy	collude	colluded	colluder	colluders	colludes	colluding	collusion	collusive	collusively	colluvial	colluvium	colly	colocate	cologne	cologned	colognes	cologs	colombia	colombian	colombians	colombo	colon	colonel	colonelcies	colonelcy	colonels	colonelship	colonelships	colones	colonial	colonialism	colonialist	colonialists	colonially	colonials	colonic	colonies	colonise	colonist	colonists	colonization	colonizationist	colonizations	colonize	colonized	colonizer	colonizers	colonizes	colonizing	colonnade	colonnaded	colonnades	colons	colony	colophon	colophons	color	colorable	colorably	coloradan	coloradans	colorado	colorant	colorants	coloration	colorations	coloratura	coloraturas	colorblind	colorcast	colorcasting	colorcasts	colored	coloreds	colorer	colorers	colorfast	colorfastness	colorful	colorfully	colorfulness	colorimeter	colorimetry	coloring	colorings	colorism	colorisms	colorist	colorists	colorless	colors	colossal	colossally	colosseum	colossi	colossians	colossus	colossuses	colostomies	colostomy	colostrum	colour	coloured	colourer	colourers	colouring	colours	colporteur	colporteurs	colt	colters	coltish	colts	columbia	columbian	columbic	columbine	columbines	columbium	columbus	column	columnal	columnar	columned	columnist	columnists	columns	colure	colures	com	coma	comanche	comanches	comas	comatose	comb	combat	combatant	combatants	combated	combater	combaters	combating	combative	combatively	combativeness	combats	combattant	combatted	combatting	combe	combed	comber	combers	combes	combination	combinations	combine	combined	combiner	combiners	combines	combing	combings	combining	combo	combos	combs	combust	combusted	combustibilities	combustibility	combustible	combustibles	combustibly	combusting	combustion	combustive	combustively	combusts	come	comeback	comebacks	comedian	comedians	comedic	comedienne	comediennes	comedies	comedo	comedones	comedos	comedown	comedowns	comedy	comelier	comeliest	comeliness	comely	comer	comers	comes	comestible	comestibles	comet	cometary	cometh	cometic	comets	comeuppance	comeuppances	comfier	comfiest	comfit	comfits	comfort	comfortable	comfortableness	comfortably	comforted	comforter	comforters	comforting	comfortingly	comfortless	comforts	comfrey	comfreys	comfy	comic	comical	comicality	comically	comics	coming	comings	comities	comity	comma	command	commandant	commandants	commanded	commandeer	commandeered	commandeering	commandeers	commander	commanders	commanding	commandment	commandments	commando	commandoes	commandos	commands	commas	comme	commemorate	commemorated	commemorates	commemorating	commemoration	commemorations	commemorative	commemoratively	commemorator	commemorators	commence	commenced	commencement	commencements	commences	commencing	commend	commendable	commendably	commendation	commendations	commendatorily	commendatory	commended	commending	commends	commensurable	commensurably	commensurate	commensurately	commensuration	commensurations	comment	commentaries	commentary	commentate	commentator	commentators	commented	commenting	comments	commerce	commerced	commerces	commercial	commercialism	commercialist	commercialists	commercialization	commercializations	commercialize	commercialized	commercializes	commercializing	commercially	commercials	commercing	commie	commies	commination	comminatory	commingle	commingled	commingles	commingling	comminute	commiserate	commiserated	commiserates	commiserating	commiseration	commiserations	commiserative	commiseratively	commissar	commissariat	commissariats	commissaries	commissars	commissary	commission	commissioned	commissioner	commissioners	commissionership	commissionerships	commissioning	commissions	commit	commitment	commitments	commits	committable	committal	committals	committed	committee	committeeman	committeemen	committees	committeewoman	committeewomen	committing	commix	commixed	commixes	commixing	commixt	commode	commodes	commodious	commodiously	commodiousness	commodities	commodity	commodore	commodores	common	commonable	commonalities	commonality	commonalties	commonalty	commoner	commoners	commonest	commonly	commonness	commonplace	commonplaces	commons	commonsensical	commonweal	commonweals	commonwealth	commonwealths	commorancies	commotion	commotions	communal	communalism	communalist	communality	communalization	communalize	communalized	communally	communard	commune	communed	communes	communicability	communicable	communicableness	communicably	communicant	communicants	communicate	communicated	communicates	communicating	communication	communications	communicative	communicatively	communicativeness	communicator	communicators	communing	communion	communions	communique	communiques	communism	communist	communistic	communistically	communists	communities	community	commutable	commutation	commutations	commutative	commutatively	commutator	commutators	commute	commuted	commuter	commuters	commutes	commuting	commy	comp	compact	compacted	compacter	compactest	compacting	compaction	compactions	compactly	compactness	compactor	compactors	compacts	compadre	compadres	companied	companies	companion	companionable	companionably	companionless	companions	companionship	companionway	companionways	company	companying	comparability	comparable	comparably	comparative	comparatively	comparativeness	comparatives	compare	compared	comparer	comparers	compares	comparing	comparison	comparisons	compartment	compartmental	compartmentalize	compartmentalized	compartmentalizes	compartmentalizing	compartmentally	compartmented	compartments	comparts	compass	compassed	compasses	compassing	compassion	compassionate	compassionately	compatibilities	compatibility	compatible	compatibleness	compatibles	compatibly	compatriot	compatriots	comped	compeer	compeers	compel	compellable	compelled	compeller	compellers	compelling	compellingly	compels	compendia	compendium	compendiums	compends	compensability	compensable	compensate	compensated	compensates	compensating	compensation	compensations	compensative	compensatively	compensator	compensators	compensatory	compere	compered	comperes	compete	competed	competence	competencies	competency	competent	competently	competes	competing	competition	competitions	competitive	competitively	competitiveness	competitor	competitors	compilable	compilation	compilations	compile	compiled	compiler	compilers	compiles	compiling	comping	complacence	complacency	complacent	complacently	complain	complainant	complainants	complained	complainer	complainers	complaining	complains	complaint	complaints	complaisance	complaisant	complaisantly	compleat	complect	complected	complement	complemental	complementarily	complementariness	complementary	complemented	complementing	complements	complete	completed	completely	completeness	completer	completers	completes	completest	completing	completion	completions	complex	complexer	complexes	complexest	complexing	complexion	complexional	complexioned	complexions	complexities	complexity	complexness	compliance	compliances	compliancies	compliancy	compliant	compliantly	complicate	complicated	complicatedly	complicatedness	complicates	complicating	complication	complications	complicator	complicities	complicity	complied	complier	compliers	complies	compliment	complimentarily	complimentary	complimented	complimenter	complimenters	complimenting	compliments	complots	comply	complying	component	componential	components	comport	comported	comporting	comportment	comports	compos	compose	composed	composedly	composedness	composer	composers	composes	composing	composite	compositely	composites	composition	compositions	compositor	compositors	compost	composted	composting	composts	composure	compote	compotes	compound	compoundable	compounded	compounder	compounders	compounding	compounds	comprehend	comprehended	comprehendible	comprehending	comprehends	comprehensibility	comprehensible	comprehensibleness	comprehensibly	comprehension	comprehensive	comprehensively	comprehensiveness	compress	compressed	compressedly	compresses	compressibility	compressible	compressing	compression	compressional	compressions	compressive	compressively	compressor	compressors	comprise	comprised	comprises	comprising	comprize	comprized	comprizes	comprizing	compromisable	compromise	compromised	compromiser	compromisers	compromises	compromising	comps	compt	compte	compted	compting	comptroller	comptrollers	compts	compulsion	compulsions	compulsive	compulsively	compulsiveness	compulsives	compulsorily	compulsory	compunction	compunctions	computability	computable	computation	computational	computations	compute	computed	computer	computerese	computerization	computerize	computerized	computerizes	computerizing	computers	computes	computing	comrade	comradely	comrades	comradeship	comsat	comte	comtes	con	conation	conative	concatenate	concatenated	concatenates	concatenating	concatenation	concatenations	concave	concaved	concaveness	concaves	concaving	concavities	concavity	concavo	conceal	concealable	concealed	concealer	concealers	concealing	concealment	conceals	concede	conceded	concededly	conceder	conceders	concedes	conceding	conceit	conceited	conceitedly	conceitedness	conceiting	conceits	conceivability	conceivable	conceivableness	conceivably	conceive	conceived	conceiver	conceivers	conceives	conceiving	concelebrate	concelebrated	concelebrates	concelebrating	concelebration	concelebrations	concentrate	concentrated	concentrates	concentrating	concentration	concentrations	concentrative	concentrator	concentrators	concentric	concentrically	concentricity	concents	concept	conception	conceptional	conceptions	conceptive	concepts	conceptual	conceptualism	conceptualist	conceptualistic	conceptualists	conceptualization	conceptualizations	conceptualize	conceptualized	conceptualizes	conceptualizing	conceptually	concern	concerned	concerning	concernment	concerns	concert	concerted	concertedly	concerti	concertina	concertinas	concerting	concertize	concertized	concertizes	concertizing	concertmaster	concertmasters	concerto	concertos	concerts	concession	concessionaire	concessionaires	concessions	concessive	conch	conches	conchoid	conchs	conchy	concierge	concierges	conciliar	conciliate	conciliated	conciliates	conciliating	conciliation	conciliations	conciliator	conciliators	conciliatory	concise	concisely	conciseness	conciser	concisest	conclave	conclaves	conclude	concluded	concluder	concluders	concludes	concluding	conclusion	conclusions	conclusive	conclusively	conclusiveness	concoct	concocted	concocting	concoction	concoctions	concocts	concomitance	concomitant	concomitantly	concord	concordance	concordances	concordant	concordantly	concordat	concordats	concords	concourse	concourses	concrescence	concrescences	concrescent	concrete	concreted	concretely	concreteness	concretes	concreting	concretion	concretions	concubinage	concubine	concubines	concupiscence	concupiscent	concur	concurred	concurrence	concurrences	concurrent	concurrently	concurring	concurs	concuss	concussed	concusses	concussing	concussion	concussions	concussive	concussively	condemn	condemnable	condemnation	condemnations	condemnatory	condemned	condemner	condemners	condemning	condemnor	condemns	condensate	condensates	condensation	condensations	condense	condensed	condenser	condensers	condenses	condensing	condescend	condescended	condescendence	condescending	condescendingly	condescends	condescension	condign	condignly	condiment	condiments	condition	conditional	conditionalities	conditionality	conditionally	conditionals	conditione	conditioned	conditioner	conditioners	conditioning	conditions	condo	condole	condoled	condolence	condolences	condoler	condolers	condoles	condoling	condom	condominium	condominiums	condoms	condonable	condonation	condonations	condone	condoned	condoner	condoners	condones	condoning	condor	condores	condors	condos	conduce	conduced	conducer	conducers	conduces	conducing	conducive	conduciveness	conduct	conductance	conductances	conducted	conductibility	conductible	conducting	conduction	conductive	conductivities	conductivity	conductor	conductors	conducts	conduit	conduits	condyle	condyles	cone	coned	conelrad	conelrads	cones	conestoga	coney	coneys	conf	confab	confabbed	confabbing	confabs	confabulate	confabulated	confabulates	confabulating	confabulation	confabulations	confect	confecting	confection	confectioner	confectioneries	confectioners	confectionery	confectiones	confections	confects	confederacies	confederacy	confederate	confederated	confederates	confederating	confederation	confederations	confederative	confer	conferee	conferees	conference	conferences	conferment	conferred	conferrer	conferrers	conferring	confers	confess	confessable	confessed	confessedly	confesses	confessing	confession	confessional	confessionals	confessions	confessor	confessors	confetti	confetto	confidant	confidante	confidantes	confidants	confide	confided	confidence	confidences	confident	confidential	confidentiality	confidentially	confidentialness	confidently	confider	confiders	confides	confiding	configuration	configurational	configurations	configurative	configure	configured	configuring	confine	confined	confinement	confinements	confiner	confiners	confines	confining	confirm	confirmable	confirmation	confirmations	confirmatory	confirmed	confirming	confirmor	confirms	confiscate	confiscated	confiscates	confiscating	confiscation	confiscations	confiscator	confiscators	confiscatory	conflagration	conflagrations	conflict	conflicted	conflicting	conflictive	conflicts	confluence	confluences	confluent	conflux	confocal	conform	conformable	conformably	conformation	conformational	conformationally	conformations	conformed	conformer	conformers	conforming	conformism	conformist	conformists	conformities	conformity	conforms	confound	confounded	confoundedly	confounder	confounders	confounding	confounds	confraternities	confraternity	confrere	confreres	confront	confrontation	confrontations	confronted	confronting	confronts	confucian	confucianism	confucians	confucius	confuse	confused	confusedly	confuses	confusing	confusingly	confusion	confusional	confusions	confutable	confutation	confutations	confutative	confutator	confute	confuted	confuter	confuters	confutes	confuting	conga	congaed	congaing	congas	congeal	congealable	congealed	congealing	congealment	congeals	congee	congeed	congees	congener	congeneric	congeners	congenial	congeniality	congenially	congenital	congenitally	conger	congeries	congers	congest	congested	congesting	congestion	congestions	congestive	congests	conglomerate	conglomerated	conglomerates	conglomerating	conglomeration	conglomerations	congo	congoes	congolese	congos	congratulate	congratulated	congratulates	congratulating	congratulation	congratulations	congratulatory	congregant	congregants	congregate	congregated	congregates	congregating	congregation	congregational	congregations	congress	congressed	congresses	congressional	congressionally	congressman	congressmen	congresswoman	congresswomen	congruence	congruences	congruencies	congruency	congruent	congruently	congruities	congruity	congruous	congruously	conic	conical	conically	conicity	conics	conies	conifer	coniferous	conifers	conj	conjecturable	conjectural	conjecture	conjectured	conjectures	conjecturing	conjoin	conjoined	conjoining	conjoins	conjoint	conjointly	conjoints	conjugal	conjugality	conjugally	conjugant	conjugate	conjugated	conjugates	conjugating	conjugation	conjugational	conjugations	conjugator	conjugators	conjunct	conjunction	conjunctions	conjunctiva	conjunctivae	conjunctival	conjunctivas	conjunctive	conjunctives	conjunctivitis	conjuncts	conjuncture	conjunctures	conjuration	conjurations	conjure	conjured	conjurer	conjurers	conjures	conjuring	conjuror	conjurors	conk	conked	conker	conkers	conking	conks	conky	conn	connate	connect	connected	connectedly	connecter	connecters	connecticut	connecting	connection	connections	connective	connectively	connectives	connector	connectors	connects	conned	conner	conners	connie	conning	conniption	conniptions	connivance	connive	connived	conniver	connivers	connivery	connives	conniving	connoisseur	connoisseurs	connotation	connotations	connotative	connote	connoted	connotes	connoting	conns	connubial	conoid	conoidal	conoids	conquer	conquerable	conquered	conquering	conqueror	conquerors	conquers	conquest	conquests	conquian	conquistador	conquistadors	conrail	cons	consanguine	consanguineous	consanguinities	consanguinity	conscience	conscienceless	consciences	conscientious	conscientiously	conscientiousness	conscious	consciously	consciousness	conscript	conscripted	conscripting	conscription	conscripts	conscripttion	consecrate	consecrated	consecrates	consecrating	consecration	consecrations	consecrative	consecrator	consecratory	consecutive	consecutively	consecutiveness	consensual	consensually	consensus	consensuses	consent	consented	consenter	consenters	consenting	consents	consequence	consequences	consequent	consequential	consequentially	consequently	conservable	conservancy	conservation	conservational	conservationism	conservationist	conservationists	conservatism	conservative	conservatively	conservatives	conservator	conservatories	conservators	conservatorship	conservatory	conserve	conserved	conserves	conserving	consider	considerable	considerably	considerate	considerately	consideration	considerations	considered	considering	considers	consign	consignataries	consigned	consignee	consignees	consigning	consignment	consignments	consignor	consignors	consigns	consist	consisted	consistence	consistences	consistencies	consistency	consistent	consistently	consisting	consistorial	consistories	consistory	consists	consitutional	consolation	consolations	consolatory	console	consoled	consoler	consolers	consoles	consolidate	consolidated	consolidates	consolidating	consolidation	consolidations	consolidator	consolidators	consoling	consolingly	consomme	consommes	consonance	consonances	consonant	consonantal	consonantly	consonants	consort	consorted	consortia	consorting	consortium	consortiums	consorts	consortship	conspectus	conspectuses	conspicuous	conspicuously	conspicuousness	conspiracies	conspiracy	conspirator	conspiratorial	conspiratorially	conspirators	conspire	conspired	conspirer	conspirers	conspires	conspiring	conspiringly	constable	constables	constabularies	constabulary	constance	constancy	constant	constantinople	constantly	constants	constellation	constellations	consternate	consternation	constipate	constipated	constipates	constipating	constipation	constituencies	constituency	constituent	constituently	constituents	constitute	constituted	constitutes	constituting	constitution	constitutional	constitutionality	constitutionally	constitutionals	constitutions	constitutive	constrain	constrainable	constrained	constrainedly	constrainer	constrainers	constraining	constrainment	constrains	constraint	constraints	constrict	constricted	constricting	constriction	constrictions	constrictive	constrictor	constrictors	constricts	construable	construct	constructed	constructing	construction	constructionism	constructionist	constructionists	constructions	constructive	constructively	constructiveness	constructor	constructors	constructs	construe	construed	construer	construers	construes	construing	consubstantiation	consul	consular	consulate	consulates	consulating	consuls	consulship	consulships	consult	consultant	consultants	consultation	consultations	consultative	consultatory	consulted	consulter	consulting	consultive	consults	consumable	consume	consumed	consumer	consumerism	consumers	consumes	consuming	consummate	consummated	consummately	consummates	consummating	consummation	consummations	consummator	consummatory	consumption	consumptions	consumptive	consumptively	consumptiveness	consumptives	cont	contact	contacted	contacting	contacts	contagion	contagions	contagious	contagiously	contagiousness	contain	containable	contained	container	containerization	containerize	containerized	containerizes	containerizing	containers	containership	containerships	containing	containment	containments	contains	contaminant	contaminants	contaminate	contaminated	contaminates	contaminating	contamination	contaminations	contaminative	contaminator	conte	contemn	contemned	contemner	contemnor	contemns	contemplate	contemplated	contemplates	contemplating	contemplation	contemplations	contemplative	contemplatively	contemplator	contemplators	contemporaneous	contemporaneously	contemporaries	contemporarily	contemporary	contempt	contemptible	contemptibly	contempts	contemptuous	contemptuously	contemptuousness	contend	contended	contender	contendere	contenders	contending	contends	content	contented	contentedly	contentedness	contenting	contention	contentional	contentions	contentious	contentiously	contentiousness	contently	contentment	contents	conterminous	conterminously	conterminousness	contes	contest	contestable	contestably	contestant	contestants	contestation	contested	contestee	contesting	contests	context	contexts	contextual	contextually	contiguities	contiguity	contiguous	contiguously	contiguousness	continence	continent	continental	continentally	continents	contingence	contingencies	contingency	contingent	contingentiam	contingently	contingents	continua	continuable	continual	continually	continuance	continuances	continuant	continuation	continuations	continue	continued	continuer	continuers	continues	continuing	continuities	continuity	continuo	continuos	continuous	continuously	continuousness	continuum	conto	contort	contorted	contorting	contortion	contortionist	contortionistic	contortionists	contortions	contortive	contorts	contour	contoured	contouring	contours	contra	contraband	contraception	contraceptive	contraceptives	contract	contracted	contractibility	contractible	contractile	contractility	contracting	contraction	contractions	contractive	contractor	contractors	contracts	contractual	contractually	contracture	contradict	contradicted	contradicting	contradiction	contradictions	contradictive	contradictively	contradictorily	contradictory	contradicts	contradistinction	contradistinctions	contradistinctive	contrail	contrails	contraindicate	contraindicated	contraindicates	contraindicating	contraindication	contraindications	contraindicative	contraire	contralto	contraltos	contraption	contraptions	contrapuntal	contraries	contrarieties	contrariety	contrarily	contrariness	contrariwise	contrary	contrast	contrastable	contrasted	contrasting	contrastingly	contrasts	contravene	contravened	contravenes	contravening	contravention	contretemps	contribute	contributed	contributes	contributing	contribution	contributions	contributor	contributories	contributorily	contributors	contributory	contrite	contritely	contriteness	contrition	contrivance	contrivances	contrive	contrived	contrivedly	contriver	contrivers	contrives	contriving	control	controllability	controllable	controllably	controlled	controller	controllers	controlling	controls	controversial	controversially	controversies	controversy	controvert	controverted	controvertible	controverting	controverts	contumacious	contumaciously	contumacy	contumelies	contumelious	contumely	contuse	contused	contuses	contusing	contusion	contusions	conundrum	conundrums	conurbation	conurbations	conus	convalesce	convalesced	convalescence	convalescent	convalescents	convalesces	convalescing	convect	convected	convecting	convection	convectional	convective	convects	convene	convened	convener	conveners	convenes	convenience	conveniences	convenient	conveniently	convening	convent	convented	conventicle	conventicles	conventing	convention	conventional	conventionalism	conventionality	conventionalize	conventionalized	conventionalizes	conventionalizing	conventionally	conventionary	conventioneer	conventioneers	conventions	convents	conventual	converge	converged	convergence	convergency	convergent	converges	converging	conversant	conversation	conversational	conversationalist	conversationalists	conversationally	conversations	converse	conversed	conversely	converses	conversing	conversion	conversions	convert	converted	converter	converters	convertible	convertibles	converting	convertor	convertors	converts	convex	convexes	convexities	convexity	convexly	convexo	convey	conveyable	conveyance	conveyancer	conveyances	conveyancing	conveyed	conveyer	conveyers	conveying	conveyor	conveyors	conveys	convict	convicted	convicting	conviction	convictions	convicts	convince	convinced	convincer	convincers	convinces	convincing	convincingly	convivial	conviviality	convivially	convocation	convocations	convoke	convoked	convoker	convokers	convokes	convoking	convoluted	convolutely	convoluting	convolution	convolutions	convolvulus	convolvuluses	convoy	convoyed	convoying	convoys	convulsant	convulse	convulsed	convulses	convulsing	convulsion	convulsions	convulsive	convulsively	cony	coo	cooch	cooed	cooee	cooeeing	cooees	cooer	cooers	cooey	cooeyed	cooeying	cooeys	cooing	cooingly	cook	cookable	cookbook	cookbooks	cooked	cooker	cookeries	cookers	cookery	cookey	cookeys	cookie	cookies	cooking	cookings	cookout	cookouts	cooks	cookshop	cookshops	cookware	cookwares	cooky	cool	coolant	coolants	cooled	cooler	coolers	coolest	cooley	coolidge	coolie	coolies	cooling	coolish	coolly	coolness	cools	cooly	coomb	coombe	coombes	coombs	coon	cooncan	coonhound	coonhounds	coons	coonskin	coonskins	coop	cooped	cooper	cooperage	cooperate	cooperated	cooperates	cooperating	cooperation	cooperations	cooperative	cooperatively	cooperativeness	cooperatives	cooperator	cooperators	coopered	coopering	coopers	coopery	cooping	coops	coopt	coopted	coopting	cooption	coopts	coordinate	coordinated	coordinately	coordinates	coordinating	coordination	coordinations	coordinative	coordinator	coordinators	coos	coot	cootie	cooties	coots	cop	copal	copals	coparent	coparents	copartner	copartners	copartnership	cope	copeck	coped	copenhagen	copepod	copepods	coper	copernican	copernicus	copers	copes	copied	copier	copiers	copies	copilot	copilots	coping	copings	copious	copiously	copiousness	coplanar	coplot	coplots	copolymer	copolymeric	copolymerization	copolymerizations	copolymerize	copolymerized	copolymerizing	copolymers	copout	copouts	copped	copper	copperas	coppered	copperhead	copperheads	coppering	copperplate	coppers	coppersmith	coppery	coppice	coppiced	coppices	copping	copra	copras	coprocessing	coprocessor	coprocessors	coprolith	coprology	cops	copse	copses	copter	copters	copula	copulae	copular	copulas	copulate	copulated	copulates	copulating	copulation	copulations	copulative	copulatively	copulatory	copy	copybook	copybooks	copyboy	copyboys	copycat	copycats	copycatted	copydesks	copyholder	copyholders	copying	copyist	copyists	copyreader	copyreaders	copyright	copyrightable	copyrighted	copyrighting	copyrights	copywriter	copywriters	coquet	coquetries	coquetry	coquets	coquette	coquetted	coquettes	coquetting	coquettish	coquettishly	coquinas	coracle	coracles	coral	corals	corbel	corbeled	corbels	cord	cordage	cordages	cordate	corded	corder	corders	cordial	cordiality	cordially	cordialness	cordials	cordillera	cordilleran	cordilleras	cording	cordite	cordites	cordless	cordlessly	cordoba	cordobas	cordon	cordoned	cordoning	cordons	cordovan	cordovans	cords	corduroy	corduroys	cordwains	cordwood	cordwoods	core	cored	coredeemed	coreigns	corelate	corelating	coreless	corer	corers	cores	corespondent	corespondents	corgi	corgis	coriander	corianders	coring	corinthian	corinthians	cork	corkage	corkages	corked	corker	corkers	corkier	corkiest	corking	corks	corkscrew	corkscrewed	corkscrewing	corkscrews	corkwood	corkwoods	corky	corm	cormorant	cormorants	corms	corn	cornball	cornballs	cornbread	corncake	corncakes	corncob	corncobs	corncrib	corncribs	cornea	corneal	corneas	corned	cornel	cornell	cornels	corneous	corner	cornerback	cornered	cornering	corners	cornerstone	cornerstones	cornet	cornetist	cornetists	cornets	cornfed	cornfield	cornflower	cornflowers	cornhusk	cornhusks	cornice	corniced	cornices	corniche	cornier	corniest	cornify	cornily	corniness	corning	cornmeal	cornmeals	cornrow	cornrows	corns	cornstalk	cornstalks	cornstarch	cornu	cornucopia	cornucopian	cornucopias	cornucopiate	cornute	corny	corolla	corollaries	corollary	corollas	corona	coronach	coronachs	coronae	coronal	coronals	coronaries	coronary	coronas	coronation	coronations	coronels	coroner	coroners	coronet	coronets	corotate	corp	corpora	corporal	corporally	corporals	corporate	corporately	corporation	corporations	corporative	corpore	corporeal	corporeality	corporeally	corps	corpse	corpses	corpsman	corpsmen	corpulence	corpulences	corpulencies	corpulency	corpulent	corpulently	corpus	corpuscle	corpuscles	corpuscular	corral	corralled	corralling	corrals	correality	correct	correctable	corrected	correcter	correctest	correcting	correction	correctional	corrections	corrective	correctives	correctly	correctness	corrector	corrects	correl	correlatable	correlate	correlated	correlates	correlating	correlation	correlations	correlative	correlatives	correspond	corresponded	correspondence	correspondences	correspondent	correspondents	corresponding	correspondingly	corresponds	corrida	corridas	corridor	corridors	corrigenda	corrigendum	corrigibility	corrigible	corrigibly	corroborate	corroborated	corroborates	corroborating	corroboration	corroborations	corroborative	corroboratively	corroborator	corroborators	corroboratory	corrode	corroded	corroder	corroders	corrodes	corrodibility	corrodible	corroding	corrosion	corrosive	corrosively	corrosiveness	corrosives	corrugate	corrugated	corrugates	corrugating	corrugation	corrugations	corrugator	corrugators	corrupt	corrupted	corrupter	corruptest	corruptibilities	corruptibility	corruptible	corruptibleness	corruptibly	corrupting	corruption	corruptionist	corruptions	corruptive	corruptly	corruptness	corruptor	corrupts	corsage	corsages	corsair	corsairs	corse	corselet	corselets	corses	corset	corseted	corseting	corsets	corslet	corslets	cortege	corteges	cortex	cortexes	cortical	cortically	cortices	cortin	cortisone	corundum	corundums	coruscate	coruscated	coruscates	coruscating	coruscation	coruscations	coruscative	corvee	corvees	corves	corvet	corvets	corvette	corvettes	corvine	corymbs	coryza	coryzal	coryzas	cosec	cosecant	cosecants	cosecs	coset	cosets	cosey	coseys	cosh	coshed	cosher	coshered	coshers	coshes	coshing	cosie	cosier	cosies	cosiest	cosign	cosignatories	cosignatory	cosigned	cosigner	cosigners	cosigning	cosigns	cosily	cosine	cosines	cosiness	cosmetic	cosmetically	cosmetician	cosmetics	cosmetologist	cosmetologists	cosmetology	cosmic	cosmical	cosmically	cosmism	cosmisms	cosmist	cosmists	cosmo	cosmochemical	cosmochemistry	cosmogonic	cosmogonies	cosmogonist	cosmogonists	cosmogony	cosmological	cosmologist	cosmologists	cosmology	cosmonaut	cosmonauts	cosmopolis	cosmopolises	cosmopolitan	cosmopolitanism	cosmopolitans	cosmos	cosmoses	cosponsor	cosponsored	cosponsoring	cosponsors	cosponsorship	cosponsorships	cossack	cossacks	cosset	cosseted	cosseting	cossets	cost	costar	costard	costards	costarred	costarring	costed	coster	costers	costing	costive	costively	costiveness	costless	costlier	costliest	costliness	costly	costs	costume	costumed	costumer	costumers	costumes	costumey	costumier	costumiers	costuming	cosy	cot	cotan	cotangent	cotangents	cotans	cote	coted	coterie	coteries	coterminous	cotes	cotillion	cotillions	cotillon	cots	cotta	cottage	cottager	cottagers	cottages	cottagey	cotter	cotters	cottiers	cotton	cottoned	cottoning	cottonmouth	cottonmouths	cottons	cottonseed	cottonseeds	cottontail	cottontails	cottonwood	cottonwoods	cottony	cotyledon	cotyledonal	cotyledonary	cotyledonous	cotyledons	couch	couchant	couchantly	couched	coucher	couchers	couches	couching	couchings	cougar	cougars	cough	coughed	cougher	coughers	coughing	coughs	could	couldest	couldst	coulee	coulees	coulomb	coulombs	coulter	coulters	council	councillor	councillorship	councilman	councilmen	councilor	councilors	councils	councilwoman	councilwomen	counsel	counselable	counseled	counselee	counseling	counsellable	counselled	counselling	counsellor	counsellors	counselor	counselors	counsels	count	countability	countable	countdown	countdowns	counted	countenance	countenanced	countenances	countenancing	counter	counteract	counteracted	counteracting	counteraction	counteractions	counteractive	counteractively	counteracts	counterattack	counterattacked	counterattacking	counterattacks	counterbalance	counterbalanced	counterbalances	counterbalancing	counterblow	counterclaim	counterclaimed	counterclaiming	counterclaims	counterclassification	counterclassifications	counterclockwise	counterculture	countercultures	countercurrent	countered	counterespionage	counterfeit	counterfeited	counterfeiter	counterfeiters	counterfeiting	counterfeitly	counterfeitness	counterfeits	countering	counterinsurgencies	counterinsurgency	counterinsurgent	counterinsurgents	counterintelligence	countermaid	counterman	countermand	countermanded	countermanding	countermands	countermeasure	countermeasures	countermen	counteroffensive	counteroffensives	counteroffer	counteropening	counterpane	counterpanes	counterpart	counterparts	counterphobic	counterplea	counterplot	counterplotted	counterplotting	counterpoint	counterpointed	counterpointing	counterpoints	counterpoise	counterpoised	counterpoises	counterpoising	counterproductive	counterrevolution	counterrevolutionaries	counterrevolutionary	counterrevolutions	counters	countersank	countershock	countersign	countersignature	countersignatures	countersigned	countersigning	countersigns	countersink	countersinking	countersinks	counterspies	counterspy	countersunk	countertenor	countertenors	countervail	countervailed	countervailing	countervails	counterweight	counterweights	countess	countesses	countian	counties	counting	countless	countries	countrified	country	countryman	countrymen	countryside	countrywide	countrywoman	countrywomen	counts	county	county's	coup	coupe	couped	coupes	couping	couple	coupled	coupler	couplers	couples	couplet	couplets	coupling	couplings	coupon	coupons	coups	courage	courageous	courageously	courageousness	courages	courant	courante	courants	courier	couriers	course	coursed	courser	coursers	courses	coursing	coursings	court	courted	courteous	courteously	courteousness	courter	courters	courtesan	courtesans	courtesied	courtesies	courtesy	courthouse	courthouses	courtier	courtiers	courting	courtlier	courtliest	courtliness	courtly	courtroom	courtrooms	courts	courtship	courtships	courtyard	courtyards	couscous	couscouses	cousin	cousinly	cousinry	cousins	couth	couther	couthest	couthier	couths	couture	coutures	couturier	couturiere	couturieres	couturiers	covalence	covalences	covalent	covalently	cove	coved	coven	covenant	covenanted	covenantee	covenanting	covenantor	covenants	covens	cover	coverage	coverages	coverall	coveralls	covered	coverer	coverers	covering	coverings	coverlet	coverlets	coverlid	coverlids	covers	coverslip	covert	covertly	covertness	coverts	coverture	coverup	coverups	coves	covet	coveted	coveter	coveters	coveting	covetous	covetously	covetousness	covets	covey	coveys	coving	covings	cow	cowages	coward	cowardice	cowardliness	cowardly	cowards	cowbane	cowbell	cowbells	cowbird	cowbirds	cowboy	cowboys	cowcatcher	cowcatchers	cowed	cowedly	cower	cowered	cowering	cowers	cowfish	cowgirl	cowgirls	cowhand	cowhands	cowherb	cowherd	cowherds	cowhide	cowhided	cowhides	cowier	cowiest	cowing	cowkine	cowl	cowled	cowlick	cowlicks	cowling	cowlings	cowls	cowman	cowmen	coworker	coworkers	cowpat	cowpats	cowpea	cowpeas	cowpoke	cowpokes	cowpox	cowpoxes	cowpuncher	cowpunchers	cowrie	cowries	cowry	cows	cowshed	cowsheds	cowskin	cowskins	cowslip	cowslips	coxcomb	coxcombs	coxswain	coxswains	coxwain	coxwaining	coxwains	coy	coyer	coyest	coyish	coyly	coyness	coynesses	coyote	coyotes	coypu	coypus	cozen	cozenage	cozened	cozener	cozeners	cozening	cozens	cozes	cozey	cozeys	cozie	cozier	cozies	coziest	cozily	coziness	cozy	cpi	cpl	cps	cpu	cr	craal	craals	crab	crabapple	crabbed	crabbedness	crabber	crabbers	crabbier	crabbiest	crabbily	crabbiness	crabbing	crabby	crabgrass	crabs	crabwise	crack	crackdown	crackdowns	cracked	cracker	crackerjack	crackerjacks	crackers	cracking	crackings	crackle	crackled	crackles	cracklier	crackliest	crackling	crackly	cracknel	cracknels	crackpot	crackpots	cracks	cracksman	crackup	crackups	cracky	cradle	cradled	cradler	cradlers	cradles	cradlesong	cradlesongs	cradling	craft	crafted	craftier	craftiest	craftily	craftiness	crafting	crafts	craftsman	craftsmanly	craftsmanship	craftsmen	crafty	crag	cragged	craggier	craggiest	craggily	cragginess	craggy	crags	cragsman	cragsmen	cram	crambos	crammed	crammer	crammers	cramming	cramp	cramped	cramping	crampon	crampons	cramps	crams	cranberries	cranberry	cranched	cranches	cranching	crane	craned	cranes	crania	cranial	cranially	craniate	craning	craniofacial	cranium	craniums	crank	crankcase	crankcases	cranked	cranker	crankest	crankier	crankiest	crankily	crankiness	cranking	crankpin	crankpins	cranks	crankshaft	crankshafts	cranky	crannied	crannies	cranny	crap	crape	craped	crapes	craping	crapped	crapper	crappers	crappie	crappier	crappies	crappiest	crappiness	crapping	crappy	craps	crapshooter	crapshooters	crapulence	crapulent	crapulous	crash	crashed	crasher	crashers	crashes	crashing	crass	crasser	crassest	crassly	crassness	crate	crated	crater	cratered	cratering	craters	crates	crating	craton	cratons	cravat	cravats	crave	craved	craven	cravened	cravenly	cravenness	cravens	craver	cravers	craves	craving	cravingly	cravings	craw	crawdad	crawdads	crawfish	crawfished	crawfishes	crawl	crawled	crawler	crawlers	crawlier	crawliest	crawling	crawls	crawlspace	crawlway	crawlways	crawly	craws	crayfish	crayfishes	crayon	crayoned	crayoning	crayonist	crayonists	crayons	craze	crazed	crazes	crazier	crazies	craziest	crazily	craziness	crazing	crazy	crc	creak	creaked	creakier	creakiest	creakily	creakiness	creaking	creaks	creaky	cream	creamed	creamer	creameries	creamers	creamery	creamier	creamiest	creamily	creaminess	creaming	creams	creamy	crease	creased	creaser	creasers	creases	creasier	creasiest	creasing	creasy	create	created	creates	creating	creation	creations	creative	creatively	creativeness	creativity	creator	creators	creature	creatures	creche	creches	credence	credences	credential	credentialed	credentials	credenza	credenzas	credibilities	credibility	credible	credibleness	credibly	credit	creditabilities	creditability	creditable	creditableness	creditably	credited	crediting	creditor	creditors	credits	credo	credos	credulity	credulous	credulously	cree	creed	creedal	creeds	creek	creeks	creel	creels	creep	creepage	creepages	creeper	creepers	creepie	creepier	creepies	creepiest	creepily	creepiness	creeping	creeps	creepy	crees	cremate	cremated	cremates	cremating	cremation	cremations	cremator	crematoria	crematories	crematorium	crematoriums	cremators	crematory	creme	cremes	crenate	crenated	crenation	crenel	crenelate	crenelated	crenelates	crenelating	crenelation	crenelations	creneled	crenels	creole	creoles	creosote	creosoted	creosotes	creosoting	crepe	creped	crepes	crepey	crepier	creping	crepitant	crepitation	crepitus	crept	crepuscular	crepy	crescendo	crescendos	crescent	crescentic	crescents	cress	cresses	cresset	cressets	crest	crestal	crested	crestfallen	crestfallenly	cresting	crestings	crestless	crests	cretaceous	crete	cretic	cretin	cretinism	cretinize	cretinized	cretinizing	cretinous	cretins	cretonne	crevasse	crevasses	crevassing	crevice	creviced	crevices	crew	crewcut	crewed	crewel	crewels	crewelwork	crewing	crewless	crewman	crewmen	crews	crib	cribbage	cribbages	cribbed	cribber	cribbers	cribbing	cribbings	cribs	cribwork	cribworks	crick	cricked	cricket	cricketer	cricketers	cricketing	crickets	cricking	cricks	cried	crier	criers	cries	crime	crimea	crimean	crimeless	crimes	criminal	criminalities	criminality	criminally	criminalness	criminals	criminated	criminologic	criminological	criminologically	criminologies	criminologist	criminologists	criminology	crimp	crimped	crimper	crimpers	crimpier	crimpiest	crimping	crimps	crimpy	crimson	crimsoned	crimsoning	crimsons	cringe	cringed	cringer	cringers	cringes	cringing	cringles	crinites	crinkle	crinkled	crinkles	crinklier	crinkliest	crinkliness	crinkling	crinkly	crinoids	crinoline	crinolines	cripple	crippled	crippler	cripplers	cripples	crippling	crises	crisic	crisis	crisp	crisped	crispen	crispened	crispening	crispens	crisper	crispers	crispest	crispier	crispiest	crispily	crispiness	crisping	crisply	crispness	crisps	crispy	crisscross	crisscrossed	crisscrosses	crisscrossing	criteria	criterion	criterions	critic	critical	criticality	critically	criticalness	criticism	criticisms	criticizable	criticize	criticized	criticizer	criticizers	criticizes	criticizing	critics	critique	critiqued	critiques	critiquing	critter	critters	crittur	critturs	croak	croaked	croaker	croakers	croakier	croakiest	croakily	croakiness	croaking	croaks	croaky	crochet	crocheted	crocheter	crocheters	crocheting	crochets	croci	crock	crocked	crockeries	crockery	crocket	crockets	crocking	crocks	crocodile	crocodiles	crocus	crocuses	croft	crofter	crofters	crofts	croissant	croissants	cromwell	cromwellian	crone	crones	cronies	crony	cronyism	cronyisms	crook	crooked	crookeder	crookedest	crookedly	crookedness	crookeries	crookery	crooking	crookneck	crooknecks	crooks	croon	crooned	crooner	crooners	crooning	croons	crop	cropland	croplands	cropless	cropped	cropper	croppers	cropping	crops	croquet	croqueted	croqueting	croquets	croquette	croquettes	crosby	crosier	crosiers	cross	crossability	crossarm	crossbar	crossbars	crossbeam	crossbeams	crossbones	crossbow	crossbows	crossbred	crossbreed	crossbreeding	crossbreeds	crosscurrent	crosscurrents	crosscut	crosscuts	crosscutting	crosse	crossed	crosser	crossers	crosses	crossest	crosshatch	crosshatched	crosshatches	crosshatching	crossing	crossings	crosslet	crossly	crossness	crossover	crossovers	crosspatch	crosspatches	crosspiece	crosspieces	crossroad	crossroads	crosstalk	crosstie	crossties	crosstown	crosswalk	crosswalks	crossway	crossways	crosswise	crossword	crosswords	crotch	crotched	crotches	crotchet	crotchetiness	crotchets	crotchety	crouch	crouched	crouches	crouching	croup	croupier	croupiers	croupiest	croupily	croups	croupy	crouton	croutons	crow	crowbar	crowbars	crowd	crowded	crowdedness	crowder	crowders	crowdies	crowding	crowds	crowdy	crowed	crower	crowers	crowfeet	crowfoot	crowfoots	crowing	crown	crowned	crowner	crowners	crownets	crowning	crowns	crows	crowsteps	crozier	croziers	crucial	crucially	crucialness	cruciate	crucible	crucibles	crucifer	crucified	crucifies	crucifix	crucifixes	crucifixion	crucifixions	cruciform	crucify	crucifying	crud	crudded	crudding	cruddy	crude	crudely	crudeness	cruder	crudes	crudest	crudities	crudity	cruds	cruel	crueler	cruelest	crueller	cruellest	cruelly	cruelness	cruelties	cruelty	cruet	cruets	cruise	cruised	cruiser	cruisers	cruises	cruising	cruller	crullers	crumb	crumbed	crumber	crumbers	crumbier	crumbiest	crumbing	crumble	crumbled	crumbles	crumblier	crumbliest	crumbliness	crumbling	crumblings	crumbly	crumbs	crumby	crummie	crummier	crummies	crummiest	crummy	crump	crumped	crumpet	crumpets	crumping	crumple	crumpled	crumples	crumpling	crumply	crumps	crunch	crunched	cruncher	crunchers	crunches	crunchier	crunchiest	crunching	crunchy	crupper	cruppers	crusade	crusaded	crusader	crusaders	crusades	crusading	crusados	cruse	crush	crushable	crushed	crusher	crushers	crushes	crushing	crushproof	crust	crustacea	crustacean	crustaceans	crustal	crusted	crustier	crustiest	crustily	crusting	crusts	crusty	crutch	crutched	crutches	crux	cruxes	cruzados	cruzeiro	cruzeiros	cry	crybabies	crybaby	crying	cryingly	cryobiologically	cryobiology	cryogen	cryogenic	cryogenically	cryogenics	cryogenies	cryogens	cryogeny	cryolite	cryonic	cryonics	cryostat	cryostats	cryosurgeon	cryosurgery	cryosurgical	cryotherapies	cryotherapy	cryotron	cryotrons	crypt	cryptal	cryptic	cryptically	crypto	cryptogam	cryptogram	cryptograms	cryptograph	cryptographer	cryptographers	cryptographic	cryptography	cryptos	crypts	crystal	crystalize	crystalline	crystallization	crystallize	crystallized	crystallizer	crystallizes	crystallizing	crystallogram	crystallographer	crystallographers	crystallographic	crystallography	crystalloid	crystalloidal	crystals	cs	csp	cst	ct	ctg	ctrl	cts	cub	cuba	cubage	cubages	cuban	cubans	cubature	cubbies	cubbish	cubby	cubbyhole	cubbyholes	cube	cubebs	cubed	cuber	cubers	cubes	cubic	cubical	cubicity	cubicle	cubicles	cubicly	cubics	cubiform	cubing	cubism	cubisms	cubist	cubistic	cubists	cubit	cubital	cubits	cuboid	cuboidal	cuboids	cubs	cuckold	cuckolded	cuckolding	cuckoldry	cuckolds	cuckoo	cuckooed	cuckooing	cuckoos	cucumber	cucumbers	cucurbit	cud	cudbears	cuddies	cuddle	cuddled	cuddles	cuddlesome	cuddlier	cuddliest	cuddling	cuddly	cuddy	cudgel	cudgeled	cudgeler	cudgelers	cudgeling	cudgelled	cudgelling	cudgels	cuds	cudweed	cudweeds	cue	cued	cueing	cues	cuesta	cuestas	cuff	cuffed	cuffing	cuffless	cufflinks	cuffs	cuing	cuirass	cuirassed	cuirasses	cuirassing	cuish	cuishes	cuisine	cuisines	cuke	cukes	culinary	cull	culled	cullender	culler	cullers	cullet	cullets	cullied	cullies	culling	culls	cully	culminate	culminated	culminates	culminating	culmination	culminations	culms	culotte	culottes	culpa	culpability	culpable	culpableness	culpably	culpae	culpas	culprit	culprits	cult	cultic	cultigen	cultism	cultisms	cultist	cultists	cultivable	cultivar	cultivatable	cultivate	cultivated	cultivates	cultivating	cultivation	cultivations	cultivator	cultivators	cults	cultural	culturally	culture	cultured	cultures	culturing	culver	culvers	culvert	culverts	cum	cumber	cumbered	cumberer	cumberers	cumbering	cumbers	cumbersome	cumbersomeness	cumbrous	cumbrously	cumin	cumins	cummerbund	cummerbunds	cummers	cummin	cumquat	cumquats	cumshaw	cumshaws	cumulate	cumulated	cumulates	cumulating	cumulative	cumulatively	cumuli	cumulonimbus	cumulous	cumulus	cuneate	cuneiform	cuniform	cunner	cunners	cunni	cunnilinctus	cunnilinguism	cunnilingus	cunning	cunninger	cunningest	cunningly	cunningness	cunnings	cunt	cunts	cup	cupbearer	cupbearers	cupboard	cupboards	cupcake	cupcakes	cupful	cupfuls	cupholder	cupid	cupidities	cupidity	cupids	cupola	cupolaed	cupolas	cuppa	cuppas	cupped	cupper	cuppers	cuppier	cupping	cuppings	cuppy	cupreous	cupric	cuprite	cuprites	cupronickel	cuprous	cuprums	cups	cupsful	cur	curability	curable	curableness	curably	curacao	curacaos	curacies	curacy	curara	curare	curares	curari	curarization	curate	curates	curative	curatively	curatives	curator	curatorial	curators	curatorship	curatrices	curatrix	curb	curbable	curbed	curber	curbers	curbing	curbings	curbs	curbside	curbstone	curbstones	curd	curded	curdier	curding	curdle	curdled	curdler	curdlers	curdles	curdling	curds	curdy	cure	cured	cureless	curer	curers	cures	curets	curettage	curette	curetted	curettes	curetting	curfew	curfewed	curfewing	curfews	curia	curiae	curial	curie	curies	curing	curio	curios	curiosa	curiosities	curiosity	curious	curiouser	curiousest	curiously	curiousness	curium	curiums	curl	curled	curler	curlers	curlew	curlews	curlicue	curlicued	curlicues	curlicuing	curlier	curliest	curlily	curliness	curling	curlings	curls	curly	curlycue	curlycues	curmudgeon	curmudgeons	curran	currant	currants	curred	currencies	currency	current	currently	currentness	currents	curricula	curricular	curriculum	curriculums	currie	curried	currier	curriers	curriery	curries	curring	currish	curry	currycomb	currycombed	currycombing	currycombs	currying	curs	curse	cursed	curseder	cursedest	cursedly	cursedness	curser	cursers	curses	cursing	cursive	cursively	cursiveness	cursives	cursor	cursorily	cursoriness	cursors	cursory	curst	curt	curtail	curtailed	curtailing	curtailment	curtailments	curtails	curtain	curtained	curtaining	curtains	curter	curtesies	curtest	curtesy	curtly	curtness	curtsey	curtseyed	curtseying	curtseys	curtsied	curtsies	curtsy	curtsying	curvaceous	curvaceously	curvature	curvatures	curve	curved	curvedly	curves	curvet	curveted	curvets	curvetting	curvey	curvier	curviest	curviness	curving	curvy	cuscus	cushier	cushiest	cushily	cushiness	cushing	cushion	cushioned	cushioning	cushions	cushiony	cushy	cusp	cuspated	cusped	cuspid	cuspidal	cuspidated	cuspidor	cuspidors	cuspids	cusps	cuss	cussed	cussedly	cusser	cussers	cusses	cussing	cussword	cusswords	custard	custards	custodial	custodian	custodians	custodianship	custodies	custody	custom	customarily	customary	customer	customers	customhouse	customhouses	customization	customize	customized	customizes	customizing	customs	customshouse	cut	cutaneous	cutaneously	cutaway	cutaways	cutback	cutbacks	cutcheries	cutdown	cutdowns	cute	cutely	cuteness	cuter	cutes	cutesier	cutesiest	cutest	cutesy	cutey	cuteys	cuticle	cuticles	cuticular	cutie	cuties	cutin	cutinizing	cutins	cutis	cutlas	cutlases	cutlass	cutlasses	cutler	cutleries	cutlers	cutlery	cutlet	cutlets	cutlines	cutoff	cutoffs	cutout	cutouts	cutpurse	cutpurses	cuts	cuttable	cuttages	cutter	cutters	cutthroat	cutthroats	cutting	cuttings	cuttle	cuttlebone	cuttlebones	cuttled	cuttlefish	cuttlefishes	cuttles	cuttling	cutty	cutup	cutups	cutworm	cutworms	cwt	cyan	cyanic	cyanide	cyanided	cyanides	cyanin	cyanitic	cyanoacrylate	cyanogen	cyanosed	cyanoses	cyanosis	cyanotic	cyans	cybercultural	cyberculture	cybernated	cybernation	cybernetic	cybernetical	cybernetically	cybernetician	cyberneticist	cyberneticists	cybernetics	cyborg	cyborgs	cycad	cycads	cyclamate	cyclamates	cyclamen	cyclamens	cyclazocine	cycle	cyclecar	cyclecars	cycled	cycler	cyclers	cycles	cyclic	cyclical	cyclically	cyclicly	cycling	cyclings	cyclist	cyclists	cyclized	cyclizes	cyclizing	cyclo	cycloid	cycloidal	cycloids	cyclometer	cyclometers	cyclonal	cyclone	cyclones	cyclonic	cyclonically	cyclopedia	cyclopedias	cyclopes	cyclops	cyclos	cyclotron	cyclotrons	cygnet	cygnets	cylinder	cylindered	cylinders	cylindrical	cylindrically	cymbal	cymbaler	cymbalers	cymbalist	cymbalists	cymbals	cymbling	cyme	cymes	cymose	cynic	cynical	cynically	cynicism	cynicisms	cynics	cynosure	cynosures	cypher	cyphered	cyphering	cyphers	cypres	cypreses	cypress	cypresses	cyprian	cyprians	cypriot	cypriote	cypriotes	cypriots	cyprus	cypruses	cyst	cystectomies	cystic	cystitis	cysts	cytologic	cytological	cytologically	cytologies	cytologist	cytologists	cytology	cytoplasm	cytoplasmic	cytosine	czar	czardas	czardases	czardom	czardoms	czarevna	czarevnas	czarina	czarinas	czarism	czarisms	czarist	czarists	czaritza	czaritzas	czars	czech	czechoslovak	czechoslovakia	czechoslovakian	czechoslovakians	czechoslovaks	czechs	dab	dabbed	dabbing	dabble	dabbled	dabbler	dabblers	dabbles	dabbling	dabblings	dabs	dace	daces	dacha	dachas	dachshund	dachshunds	dacoit	dacoits	dacron	dactyl	dactylic	dactyls	dactylus	dad	dada	dadaism	dadaisms	dadaist	dadaists	dadas	daddies	daddling	daddy	dado	dadoed	dadoes	dadoing	dados	dads	daemon	daemonic	daemons	daffier	daffiest	daffiness	daffodil	daffodils	daffy	daft	dafter	daftest	daftly	daftness	dagger	daggered	daggers	dago	dagoba	dagobas	dagoes	dagos	daguerreotype	daguerreotypes	dahlia	dahlias	dahomey	dailies	daily	daimon	daimonic	daimons	daimyo	daimyos	daintier	dainties	daintiest	daintily	daintiness	dainty	daiquiri	daiquiris	dairies	dairy	dairying	dairymaid	dairymaids	dairyman	dairymen	dais	daises	daisied	daisies	daisy	dakoit	dakoits	dakota	dakotan	dakotans	dakotas	dale	dales	dalesman	dalesmen	daleth	daleths	dallas	dalles	dalliance	dalliances	dallied	dallier	dalliers	dallies	dally	dallying	dalmatian	dalmatians	dam	damage	damageable	damaged	damager	damagers	damages	damaging	damagingly	damascene	damascened	damascenes	damascus	damask	damasked	damasks	dame	dames	dammed	dammer	dammers	damming	damn	damnabilities	damnability	damnable	damnableness	damnably	damnation	damndest	damned	damneder	damnedest	damner	damners	damnification	damnify	damnifying	damning	damnit	damns	damocles	damosel	damosels	damozels	damp	damped	dampen	dampened	dampener	dampeners	dampening	dampens	damper	dampers	dampest	damping	dampish	damply	dampness	damps	dams	damsel	damselflies	damselfly	damsels	damson	damsons	dan	dana	dance	danced	dancer	dancers	dances	dancing	dancingly	dandelion	dandelions	dander	dandered	danders	dandier	dandies	dandiest	dandification	dandified	dandifies	dandify	dandifying	dandily	dandle	dandled	dandler	dandlers	dandles	dandling	dandruff	dandy	dandyish	dandyism	dandyisms	dane	danegeld	danegelds	danes	daneweed	danewort	dang	danged	danger	dangered	dangerous	dangerously	dangerousness	dangers	danging	dangle	dangled	dangler	danglers	dangles	dangling	dangs	daniel	danish	dank	danker	dankest	dankly	dankness	danseur	danseurs	danseuse	danseuses	dante	danube	daphnia	daphnias	dapper	dapperer	dapperest	dapperly	dapperness	dapping	dapple	dappled	dapples	dappling	dare	dared	daredevil	daredevils	dareful	darer	darers	dares	daresay	daring	daringly	daringness	darings	dark	darked	darken	darkened	darkener	darkeners	darkening	darkens	darker	darkest	darkey	darkeys	darkhaired	darkie	darkies	darking	darkish	darkle	darkled	darkles	darklier	darkliest	darkling	darkly	darkness	darkroom	darkrooms	darks	darksome	darky	darling	darlings	darn	darndest	darndests	darned	darneder	darnedest	darnel	darnels	darner	darners	darning	darnings	darns	dart	darted	darter	darters	darting	darts	darvon	darwin	darwinian	darwinians	darwinism	darwinist	darwinists	darwinite	dash	dashboard	dashboards	dashed	dasher	dashers	dashes	dashier	dashiki	dashikis	dashing	dashingly	dashpot	dashpots	dashy	dastard	dastardliness	dastardly	dastards	data	database	databases	datable	dataflow	datamation	datary	datcha	datchas	date	dateable	dated	datedly	datedness	dateless	dateline	datelined	datelines	datelining	dater	daters	dates	dating	dative	datively	datives	datsun	datsuns	datum	datums	datura	daturas	daub	daubed	dauber	dauberies	daubers	daubery	daubes	daubier	daubing	daubs	dauby	daughter	daughterly	daughters	daunt	daunted	daunter	daunters	daunting	dauntless	dauntlessly	dauntlessness	daunts	dauphin	dauphine	dauphins	dave	davenport	davenports	david	davies	davis	davit	davits	daw	dawdle	dawdled	dawdler	dawdlers	dawdles	dawdling	dawn	dawned	dawning	dawns	day	daybed	daybeds	daybook	daybooks	daybreak	daybreaks	daydream	daydreamed	daydreamer	daydreamers	daydreaming	daydreams	daydreamt	dayflies	dayflower	dayflowers	dayfly	dayglow	dayglows	daylight	daylighted	daylights	daylilies	daylily	daylit	daylong	daymare	dayroom	dayrooms	days	dayside	daysides	daystar	daystars	daytime	daytimes	dayton	daze	dazed	dazedly	dazedness	dazes	dazing	dazzle	dazzled	dazzler	dazzlers	dazzles	dazzling	dazzlingly	db	dbl	dbms	dc	de	deaccession	deaccessioned	deaccessioning	deaccessions	deacidification	deacidified	deacidifying	deacon	deaconed	deaconess	deaconesses	deaconing	deaconries	deaconry	deacons	deactivate	deactivated	deactivates	deactivating	deactivation	deactivations	deactivator	deactivators	dead	deadbeat	deadbeats	deaden	deadened	deadener	deadeners	deadening	deadens	deader	deadest	deadeye	deadeyes	deadfall	deadfalls	deadhead	deadheaded	deadheads	deadlier	deadliest	deadline	deadlines	deadliness	deadlock	deadlocked	deadlocking	deadlocks	deadly	deadman	deadness	deadpan	deadpanned	deadpans	deads	deadweight	deadwood	deadwoods	deaf	deafen	deafened	deafening	deafens	deafer	deafest	deafish	deafly	deafness	deair	deairs	deal	dealcoholization	dealer	dealers	dealership	dealerships	dealing	dealings	deals	dealt	dean	deaneries	deanery	deaning	deans	deanship	deanships	dear	dearer	dearest	dearie	dearies	dearly	dearness	dears	dearth	dearths	deary	deash	death	deathbed	deathbeds	deathblow	deathblows	deathcup	deathcups	deathful	deathless	deathlessly	deathlessness	deathlike	deathly	deathrate	deaths	deathtrap	deathtraps	deathwatch	deathwatches	deathy	deb	debacle	debacles	debar	debark	debarkation	debarkations	debarked	debarking	debarks	debarment	debarred	debarring	debars	debase	debased	debasedness	debasement	debaser	debasers	debases	debasing	debatable	debatably	debate	debateable	debated	debater	debaters	debates	debating	debauch	debauched	debauchedly	debauchedness	debauchee	debauchees	debaucher	debaucheries	debauchery	debauches	debauching	debbie	debenture	debentures	debilitant	debilitate	debilitated	debilitates	debilitating	debilitation	debilitations	debilitative	debilities	debility	debit	debitable	debited	debiting	debits	debonair	debonairly	debonairness	debone	debouch	debouche	debouched	debouches	debouching	debrided	debrief	debriefed	debriefing	debriefings	debriefs	debris	debruising	debs	debt	debtee	debtless	debtor	debtors	debts	debug	debugged	debugger	debuggers	debugging	debugs	debunk	debunked	debunker	debunkers	debunking	debunks	debussy	debut	debutant	debutante	debutantes	debutants	debuted	debuting	debuts	dec	decade	decadence	decadent	decadently	decadents	decades	decaffeinate	decaffeinated	decaffeinates	decaffeinating	decagon	decagons	decagram	decahedra	decahedron	decahedrons	decal	decalcification	decalcified	decalcifies	decalcify	decalcifying	decalcomania	decalcomanias	decaliters	decals	decameter	decameters	decamp	decamped	decamping	decampment	decamps	decant	decanted	decanter	decanters	decanting	decants	decapitate	decapitated	decapitates	decapitating	decapitation	decapitations	decapitator	decapod	decapods	decapsulate	decares	decasyllabic	decasyllable	decasyllables	decathlon	decathlons	decay	decayable	decayed	decayedness	decayer	decayers	decaying	decays	decease	deceased	deceases	deceasing	decedent	decedents	deceit	deceitful	deceitfully	deceitfulness	deceits	deceivable	deceive	deceived	deceiver	deceivers	deceives	deceiving	deceivingly	decelerate	decelerated	decelerates	decelerating	deceleration	decelerations	decelerator	decelerators	december	decemvir	decenaries	decenary	decencies	decency	decennia	decennial	decennially	decennials	decenniums	decent	decenter	decentered	decentest	decently	decentralism	decentralist	decentralization	decentralizations	decentralize	decentralized	decentralizes	decentralizing	decentring	deception	deceptions	deceptive	deceptively	deceptiveness	decertification	decertified	decertifying	dechlorinate	dechlorinated	dechlorinating	dechlorination	deciare	deciares	decibel	decibels	decidable	decide	decided	decidedly	decider	deciders	decides	deciding	decidua	decidual	deciduous	deciduously	deciduousness	decigram	decigrams	decile	deciliter	deciliters	decimal	decimalization	decimalize	decimalized	decimalizes	decimalizing	decimally	decimals	decimate	decimated	decimates	decimating	decimation	decimeter	decimeters	decipher	decipherable	deciphered	deciphering	deciphers	decision	decisional	decisions	decisive	decisively	decisiveness	decistere	decisteres	deck	decked	decker	deckers	deckhand	deckhands	decking	deckings	deckle	deckles	decks	declaim	declaimed	declaimer	declaimers	declaiming	declaims	declamation	declamations	declamatory	declarable	declarant	declaration	declarations	declarative	declaratively	declarator	declaratory	declare	declared	declarer	declarers	declares	declaring	declasse	declassification	declassifications	declassified	declassifies	declassify	declassifying	declassing	declension	declensions	declinable	declination	declinational	declinations	declinatory	declinature	decline	declined	decliner	decliners	declines	declining	declivities	declivity	deco	decoct	decocted	decocting	decoction	decocts	decode	decoded	decoder	decoders	decodes	decoding	decodings	decollated	decollete	decolonization	decolonize	decolonized	decolonizes	decolonizing	decommission	decommissioned	decommissioning	decommissions	decompensate	decompensated	decompensates	decompensating	decompensation	decompensations	decomposability	decomposable	decompose	decomposed	decomposer	decomposers	decomposes	decomposing	decomposition	decompositions	decompress	decompressed	decompresses	decompressing	decompression	decompressions	decompressive	decongest	decongestant	decongestants	decongested	decongesting	decongestion	decongestive	decongests	decontaminate	decontaminated	decontaminates	decontaminating	decontamination	decontaminations	decontaminator	decontaminators	decontrol	decontrolled	decontrolling	decontrols	decor	decorate	decorated	decorates	decorating	decoration	decorations	decorative	decoratively	decorativeness	decorator	decorators	decorous	decorously	decorousness	decors	decorticate	decorum	decorums	decoupage	decouple	decoy	decoyed	decoyer	decoyers	decoying	decoys	decrease	decreased	decreases	decreasing	decreasingly	decree	decreed	decreeing	decreer	decreers	decrees	decrement	decrements	decrepit	decrepitly	decrepitude	decrescendo	decrescendos	decrial	decrials	decried	decrier	decriers	decries	decriminalization	decriminalize	decriminalized	decriminalizes	decriminalizing	decrowns	decry	decrying	decrypt	decrypted	decrypting	decryption	decryptions	decrypts	dedicate	dedicated	dedicatee	dedicates	dedicating	dedication	dedicational	dedications	dedicator	dedicators	dedicatory	deduce	deduced	deduces	deducible	deducing	deduct	deducted	deductibility	deductible	deductibles	deducting	deduction	deductions	deductive	deductively	deducts	deed	deedbox	deeded	deedier	deeding	deedless	deeds	deedy	deejay	deejays	deem	deemed	deeming	deemphasis	deemphasize	deemphasized	deemphasizes	deemphasizing	deems	deep	deepen	deepened	deepener	deepeners	deepening	deepens	deeper	deepest	deeply	deepness	deeps	deer	deerfly	deerflys	deers	deerskin	deerskins	deerstalker	deerstalkers	deerweed	deerweeds	deeryard	dees	deescalate	deescalated	deescalates	deescalating	deescalation	deescalations	deface	defaced	defacement	defacements	defacer	defacers	defaces	defacing	defacto	defalcate	defalcated	defalcates	defalcating	defalcation	defalcations	defamation	defamations	defamatory	defame	defamed	defamer	defamers	defames	defaming	defamingly	defat	defats	defatted	default	defaulted	defaulter	defaulters	defaulting	defaults	defeat	defeated	defeater	defeaters	defeating	defeatism	defeatist	defeatists	defeats	defecate	defecated	defecates	defecating	defecation	defect	defected	defecter	defecters	defecting	defection	defections	defective	defectively	defectiveness	defector	defectors	defects	defeminize	defeminized	defeminizing	defence	defences	defend	defendable	defendant	defendants	defended	defender	defenders	defending	defends	defense	defensed	defenseless	defenselessly	defenselessness	defenses	defensibility	defensible	defensibly	defensing	defensive	defensively	defensiveness	defer	deference	deferent	deferential	deferentially	deferment	deferments	deferrable	deferral	deferrals	deferred	deferrer	deferrers	deferring	defers	defiance	defiances	defiant	defiantly	defibrillate	deficiencies	deficiency	deficient	deficiently	deficit	deficits	defied	defier	defiers	defies	defile	defiled	defilement	defilements	defiler	defilers	defiles	defiling	defilingly	definable	definably	define	defined	definement	definer	definers	defines	defining	definite	definitely	definiteness	definition	definitions	definitive	definitively	definitiveness	deflagrate	deflagrated	deflagrates	deflagrating	deflagration	deflagrations	deflate	deflated	deflates	deflating	deflation	deflationary	deflations	deflator	deflators	deflea	deflect	deflectable	deflected	deflecting	deflection	deflections	deflective	deflector	deflectors	deflects	defloration	deflorations	deflorescence	deflower	deflowered	deflowering	deflowers	defoam	defoamed	defoamer	defog	defogged	defogger	defoggers	defogging	defogs	defoliant	defoliants	defoliate	defoliated	defoliates	defoliating	defoliation	defoliations	defoliator	defoliators	deforest	deforestation	deforested	deforesting	deforests	deform	deformable	deformation	deformations	deformative	deformed	deformer	deformers	deforming	deformities	deformity	deforms	defraud	defraudation	defrauded	defrauder	defrauders	defrauding	defrauds	defray	defrayable	defrayal	defrayals	defrayed	defrayer	defrayers	defraying	defrayment	defrays	defrock	defrocked	defrocking	defrocks	defrost	defrosted	defroster	defrosters	defrosting	defrosts	deft	defter	deftest	deftly	deftness	defunct	defunctive	defunctness	defuse	defused	defuses	defusing	defuze	defuzed	defuzes	defuzing	defy	defying	degas	degass	degassed	degasses	degassing	degauss	degaussed	degausses	degaussing	degeneracies	degeneracy	degenerate	degenerated	degenerately	degenerateness	degenerates	degenerating	degeneration	degenerations	degenerative	degerm	degermed	degradable	degradation	degradations	degrade	degraded	degradedly	degradedness	degrader	degraders	degrades	degrading	degrease	degreased	degreases	degreasing	degree	degreed	degrees	degum	degummed	degumming	degums	dehorn	dehorned	dehorner	dehorning	dehorns	dehumanization	dehumanize	dehumanized	dehumanizes	dehumanizing	dehumidification	dehumidified	dehumidifier	dehumidifiers	dehumidifies	dehumidify	dehumidifying	dehydrate	dehydrated	dehydrates	dehydrating	dehydration	dehydrator	dehydrators	dehydrogenate	dehydrogenated	dehydrogenates	dehydrogenating	dehydrogenation	dehypnotize	dehypnotized	dehypnotizing	dei	deice	deiced	deicer	deicers	deices	deicidal	deicide	deicides	deicing	deific	deifical	deification	deifications	deified	deifier	deifiers	deifies	deiform	deify	deifying	deign	deigned	deigning	deigns	deionization	deionizations	deionize	deionized	deionizes	deionizing	deism	deisms	deist	deistic	deists	deities	deity	deja	deject	dejected	dejectedly	dejectedness	dejecting	dejection	dejections	dejects	dekagram	dekagrams	dekaliter	dekaliters	dekameter	dekameters	dekares	del	delaware	delawarean	delay	delayed	delayer	delayers	delaying	delays	dele	delead	delectable	delectably	delectation	delectations	deled	delegacies	delegacy	delegalizing	delegant	delegate	delegated	delegatee	delegates	delegati	delegating	delegation	delegations	delegatory	deleing	deles	delete	deleted	deleterious	deleteriously	deleteriousness	deletes	deleting	deletion	deletions	delft	delfts	delhi	deli	deliberate	deliberated	deliberately	deliberateness	deliberates	deliberating	deliberation	deliberations	deliberative	deliberatively	deliberator	delicacies	delicacy	delicate	delicately	delicateness	delicates	delicatessen	delicatessens	delicious	deliciously	deliciousness	delict	delicti	delicto	delight	delighted	delightedly	delightful	delightfully	delightfulness	delighting	delights	delime	deliming	delimit	delimitating	delimitation	delimitations	delimitative	delimited	delimiter	delimiters	delimiting	delimits	delineate	delineated	delineates	delineating	delineation	delineations	delineative	delinquencies	delinquency	delinquent	delinquently	delinquents	deliquesce	deliquesced	deliquescence	deliquescent	deliquesces	deliquescing	deliria	deliriant	delirifacient	delirious	deliriously	deliriousness	delirium	deliriums	delis	delist	deliver	deliverable	deliverables	deliverance	delivered	deliverer	deliverers	deliveries	delivering	delivers	delivery	dell	dells	delly	delouse	deloused	delouses	delousing	delphinia	delphinium	delphiniums	delta	deltaic	deltas	deltic	deltoid	deltoids	delude	deluded	deluder	deluders	deludes	deluding	deludingly	deluge	deluged	deluges	deluging	delusion	delusional	delusionary	delusionist	delusions	delusive	delusively	delusiveness	delusory	deluxe	delve	delved	delver	delvers	delves	delving	demagnetization	demagnetize	demagnetized	demagnetizes	demagnetizing	demagnification	demagog	demagogic	demagogies	demagogs	demagogue	demagoguery	demagogues	demagogy	demand	demandable	demanded	demander	demanders	demanding	demandingly	demands	demarcate	demarcated	demarcates	demarcating	demarcation	demarcations	demarcator	demarcators	demarche	demarches	demarking	demasculinize	demasculinized	demasculinizing	demean	demeaned	demeaning	demeanor	demeanors	demeans	dement	demented	dementedly	dementia	dementias	dementing	dements	demerit	demerited	demeriting	demerits	demesne	demesnes	demeter	demigod	demigods	demijohn	demijohns	demilitarization	demilitarize	demilitarized	demilitarizes	demilitarizing	demimondain	demimondaine	demimondaines	demimonde	demineralization	demineralize	demineralized	demineralizes	demineralizing	demise	demised	demises	demising	demit	demitasse	demitasses	demits	demitted	demiurge	demiurges	demo	demob	demobbed	demobbing	demobilization	demobilizations	demobilize	demobilized	demobilizes	demobilizing	demobs	democracies	democracy	democrat	democratic	democratical	democratically	democratism	democratization	democratize	democratized	democratizes	democratizing	democrats	demode	demodulate	demodulated	demodulates	demodulating	demodulation	demodulations	demographer	demographers	demographic	demographically	demographics	demographies	demography	demoiselle	demoiselles	demolish	demolished	demolisher	demolishes	demolishing	demolition	demolitionist	demolitions	demon	demoness	demonetization	demonetize	demonetized	demonetizes	demonetizing	demoniac	demoniacal	demoniacs	demonian	demonic	demonical	demonise	demonism	demonisms	demonist	demonists	demonize	demonized	demonizes	demonizing	demonologies	demonology	demons	demonstrable	demonstrably	demonstrandum	demonstrate	demonstrated
coil	coiled	coiler	coilers	coiling	coils	coin	coinable	coinage	coinages	coincide	coincided	coincidence	coincidences	coincident	coincidental	coincidentally	coincides	coinciding	coined	coiner	coiners	coinferred	coinhering	coining	coins	coinsurance	coinsured	coinsurer	coinsures	coinsuring	cointerred	coir	coirs	coital	coitally	coition	coitional	coitions	coitophobia	coitus	coituses	coke	coked	cokes	coking	col	cola	colander	colanders	colas	cold	colder	coldest	coldish	coldly	coldness	colds	cole	coles	coleslaw	coleslaws	coleus	coleuses	colewort	colic	colicky	colics	coliform	coliforms	colin	colinear	coliseum	coliseums	colitic	colitis	colitises	coll	collaborate	collaborated	collaborates	collaborating	collaboration	collaborationism	collaborationist	collaborationists	collaborations	collaborative	collaborator	collaborators	collage	collagen	collagens	collages	collapse	collapsed	collapses	collapsibility	collapsible	collapsing	collar	collarbone	collarbones	collard	collards	collared	collaring	collarless	collars	collat	collate	collated	collateral	collateralizing	collaterally	collaterals	collates	collating	collation	collations	collator	collators	colleague	colleagues	collect	collectable	collectables	collected	collectedly	collectible	collectibles	collecting	collection	collections	collective	collectively	collectives	collectivism	collectivist	collectivists	collectivize	collectivized	collectivizes	collectivizing	collector	collectors	collects	colleen	colleens	college	colleger	colleges	collegia	collegial	collegiality	collegially	collegian	collegians	collegiate	collegium	collegiums	colleted	collets	collide	collided	collides	colliding	collie	collied	collier	collieries	colliers	colliery	collies	collimate	collimating	collimation	collinear	collins	collinses	collision	collisions	collocate	collocated	collocates	collocating	collocation	collocations	collodion	collodium	colloid	colloidal	colloids	collop	collops	colloq	colloquia	colloquial	colloquialism	colloquialisms	colloquially	colloquies	colloquium	colloquiums	colloquy	collude	colluded	colluder	colluders	colludes	colluding	collusion	collusive	collusively	colluvial	colluvium	colly	colocate	cologne	cologned	colognes	cologs	colombia	colombian	colombians	colombo	colon	colonel	colonelcies	colonelcy	colonels	colonelship	colonelships	colones	colonial	colonialism	colonialist	colonialists	colonially	colonials	colonic	colonies	colonise	colonist	colonists	colonization	colonizationist	colonizations	colonize	colonized	colonizer	colonizers	colonizes	colonizing	colonnade	colonnaded	colonnades	colons	colony	colophon	colophons	color	colorable	colorably	coloradan	coloradans	colorado	colorant	colorants	coloration	colorations	coloratura	coloraturas	colorblind	colorcast	colorcasting	colorcasts	colored	coloreds	colorer	colorers	colorfast	colorfastness	colorful	colorfully	colorfulness	colorimeter	colorimetry	coloring	colorings	colorism	colorisms	colorist	colorists	colorless	colors	colossal	colossally	colosseum	colossi	colossians	colossus	colossuses	colostomies	colostomy	colostrum	colour	coloured	colourer	colourers	colouring	colours	colporteur	colporteurs	colt	colters	coltish	colts	columbia	columbian	columbic	columbine	columbines	columbium	columbus	column	columnal	columnar	columned	columnist	columnists	columns	colure	colures	com	coma	comanche	comanches	comas	comatose	comb	combat	combatant	combatants	combated	combater	combaters	combating	combative	combatively	combativeness	combats	combattant	combatted	combatting	combe	combed	comber	combers	combes	combination	combinations	combine	combined	combiner	combiners	combines	combing	combings	combining	combo	combos	combs	combust	combusted	combustibilities	combustibility	combustible	combustibles	combustibly	combusting	combustion	combustive	combustively	combusts	come	comeback	comebacks	comedian	comedians	comedic	comedienne	comediennes	comedies	comedo	comedones	comedos	comedown	comedowns	comedy	comelier	comeliest	comeliness	comely	comer	comers	comes	comestible	comestibles	comet	cometary	cometh	cometic	comets	comeuppance	comeuppances	comfier	comfiest	comfit	comfits	comfort	comfortable	comfortableness	comfortably	comforted	comforter	comforters	comforting	comfortingly	comfortless	comforts	comfrey	comfreys	comfy	comic	comical	comicality	comically	comics	coming	comings	comities	comity	comma	command	commandant	commandants	commanded	commandeer	commandeered	commandeering	commandeers	commander	commanders	commanding	commandment	commandments	commando	commandoes	commandos	commands	commas	comme	commemorate	commemorated	commemorates	commemorating	commemoration	commemorations	commemorative	commemoratively	commemorator	commemorators	commence	commenced	commencement	commencements	commences	commencing	commend	commendable	commendably	commendation	commendations	commendatorily	commendatory	commended	commending	commends	commensurable	commensurably	commensurate	commensurately	commensuration	commensurations	comment	commentaries	commentary	commentate	commentator	commentators	commented	commenting	comments	commerce	commerced	commerces	commercial	commercialism	commercialist	commercialists	commercialization	commercializations	commercialize	commercialized	commercializes	commercializing	commercially	commercials	commercing	commie	commies	commination	comminatory	commingle	commingled	commingles	commingling	comminute	commiserate	commiserated	commiserates	commiserating	commiseration	commiserations	commiserative	commiseratively	commissar	commissariat	commissariats	commissaries	commissars	commissary	commission	commissioned	commissioner	commissioners	commissionership	commissionerships	commissioning	commissions	commit	commitment	commitments	commits	committable	committal	committals	committed	committee	committeeman	committeemen	committees	committeewoman	committeewomen	committing	commix	commixed	commixes	commixing	commixt	commode	commodes	commodious	commodiously	commodiousness	commodities	commodity	commodore	commodores	common	commonable	commonalities	commonality	commonalties	commonalty	commoner	commoners	commonest	commonly	commonness	commonplace	commonplaces	commons	commonsensical	commonweal	commonweals	commonwealth	commonwealths	commorancies	commotion	commotions	communal	communalism	communalist	communality	communalization	communalize	communalized	communally	communard	commune	communed	communes	communicability	communicable	communicableness	communicably	communicant	communicants	communicate	communicated	communicates	communicating	communication	communications	communicative	communicatively	communicativeness	communicator	communicators	communing	communion	communions	communique	communiques	communism	communist	communistic	communistically	communists	communities	community	commutable	commutation	commutations	commutative	commutatively	commutator	commutators	commute	commuted	commuter	commuters	commutes	commuting	commy	comp	compact	compacted	compacter	compactest	compacting	compaction	compactions	compactly	compactness	compactor	compactors	compacts	compadre	compadres	companied	companies	companion	companionable	companionably	companionless	companions	companionship	companionway	companionways	company	companying	comparability	comparable	comparably	comparative	comparatively	comparativeness	comparatives	compare	compared	comparer	comparers	compares	comparing	comparison	comparisons	compartment	compartmental	compartmentalize	compartmentalized	compartmentalizes	compartmentalizing	compartmentally	compartmented	compartments	comparts	compass	compassed	compasses	compassing	compassion	compassionate	compassionately	compatibilities	compatibility	compatible	compatibleness	compatibles	compatibly	compatriot	compatriots	comped	compeer	compeers	compel	compellable	compelled	compeller	compellers	compelling	compellingly	compels	compendia	compendium	compendiums	compends	compensability	compensable	compensate	compensated	compensates	compensating	compensation	compensations	compensative	compensatively	compensator	compensators	compensatory	compere	compered	comperes	compete	competed	competence	competencies	competency	competent	competently	competes	competing	competition	competitions	competitive	competitively	competitiveness	competitor	competitors	compilable	compilation	compilations	compile	compiled	compiler	compilers	compiles	compiling	comping	complacence	complacency	complacent	complacently	complain	complainant	complainants	complained	complainer	complainers	complaining	complains	complaint	complaints	complaisance	complaisant	complaisantly	compleat	complect	complected	complement	complemental	complementarily	complementariness	complementary	complemented	complementing	complements	complete	completed	completely	completeness	completer	completers	completes	completest	completing	completion	completions	complex	complexer	complexes	complexest	complexing	complexion	complexional	complexioned	complexions	complexities	complexity	complexness	compliance	compliances	compliancies	compliancy	compliant	compliantly	complicate	complicated	complicatedly	complicatedness	complicates	complicating	complication	complications	complicator	complicities	complicity	complied	complier	compliers	complies	compliment	complimentarily	complimentary	complimented	complimenter	complimenters	complimenting	compliments	complots	comply	complying	component	componential	components	comport	comported	comporting	comportment	comports	compos	compose	composed	composedly	composedness	composer	composers	composes	composing	composite	compositely	composites	composition	compositions	compositor	compositors	compost	composted	composting	composts	composure	compote	compotes	compound	compoundable	compounded	compounder	compounders	compounding	compounds	comprehend	comprehended	comprehendible	comprehending	comprehends	comprehensibility	comprehensible	comprehensibleness	comprehensibly	comprehension	comprehensive	comprehensively	comprehensiveness	compress	compressed	compressedly	compresses	compressibility	compressible	compressing	compression	compressional	compressions	compressive	compressively	compressor	compressors	comprise	comprised	comprises	comprising	comprize	comprized	comprizes	comprizing	compromisable	compromise	compromised	compromiser	compromisers	compromises	compromising	comps	compt	compte	compted	compting	comptroller	comptrollers	compts	compulsion	compulsions	compulsive	compulsively	compulsiveness	compulsives	compulsorily	compulsory	compunction	compunctions	computability	computable	computation	computational	computations	compute	computed	computer	computerese	computerization	computerize	computerized	computerizes	computerizing	computers	computes	computing	comrade	comradely	comrades	comradeship	comsat	comte	comtes	con	conation	conative	concatenate	concatenated	concatenates	concatenating	concatenation	concatenations	concave	concaved	concaveness	concaves	concaving	concavities	concavity	concavo	conceal	concealable	concealed	concealer	concealers	concealing	concealment	conceals	concede	conceded	concededly	conceder	conceders	concedes	conceding	conceit	conceited	conceitedly	conceitedness	conceiting	conceits	conceivability	conceivable	conceivableness	conceivably	conceive	conceived	conceiver	conceivers	conceives	conceiving	concelebrate	concelebrated	concelebrates	concelebrating	concelebration	concelebrations	concentrate	concentrated	concentrates	concentrating	concentration	concentrations	concentrative	concentrator	concentrators	concentric	concentrically	concentricity	concents	concept	conception	conceptional	conceptions	conceptive	concepts	conceptual	conceptualism	conceptualist	conceptualistic	conceptualists	conceptualization	conceptualizations	conceptualize	conceptualized	conceptualizes	conceptualizing	conceptually	concern	concerned	concerning	concernment	concerns	concert	concerted	concertedly	concerti	concertina	concertinas	concerting	concertize	concertized	concertizes	concertizing	concertmaster	concertmasters	concerto	concertos	concerts	concession	concessionaire	concessionaires	concessions	concessive	conch	conches	conchoid	conchs	conchy	concierge	concierges	conciliar	conciliate	conciliated	conciliates	conciliating	conciliation	conciliations	conciliator	conciliators	conciliatory	concise	concisely	conciseness	conciser	concisest	conclave	conclaves	conclude	concluded	concluder	concluders	concludes	concluding	conclusion	conclusions	conclusive	conclusively	conclusiveness	concoct	concocted	concocting	concoction	concoctions	concocts	concomitance	concomitant	concomitantly	concord	concordance	concordances	concordant	concordantly	concordat	concordats	concords	concourse	concourses	concrescence	concrescences	concrescent	concrete	concreted	concretely	concreteness	concretes	concreting	concretion	concretions	concubinage	concubine	concubines	concupiscence	concupiscent	concur	concurred	concurrence	concurrences	concurrent	concurrently	concurring	concurs	concuss	concussed	concusses	concussing	concussion	concussions	concussive	concussively	condemn	condemnable	condemnation	condemnations	condemnatory	condemned	condemner	condemners	condemning	condemnor	condemns	condensate	condensates	condensation	condensations	condense	condensed	condenser	condensers	condenses	condensing	condescend	condescended	condescendence	condescending	condescendingly	condescends	condescension	condign	condignly	condiment	condiments	condition	conditional	conditionalities	conditionality	conditionally	conditionals	conditione	conditioned	conditioner	conditioners	conditioning	conditions	condo	condole	condoled	condolence	condolences	condoler	condolers	condoles	condoling	condom	condominium	condominiums	condoms	condonable	condonation	condonations	condone	condoned	condoner	condoners	condones	condoning	condor	condores	condors	condos	conduce	conduced	conducer	conducers	conduces	conducing	conducive	conduciveness	conduct	conductance	conductances	conducted	conductibility	conductible	conducting	conduction	conductive	conductivities	conductivity	conductor	conductors	conducts	conduit	conduits	condyle	condyles	cone	coned	conelrad	conelrads	cones	conestoga	coney	coneys	conf	confab	confabbed	confabbing	confabs	confabulate	confabulated	confabulates	confabulating	confabulation	confabulations	confect	confecting	confection	confectioner	confectioneries	confectioners	confectionery	confectiones	confections	confects	confederacies	confederacy	confederate	confederated	confederates	confederating	confederation	confederations	confederative	confer	conferee	conferees	conference	conferences	conferment	conferred	conferrer	conferrers	conferring	confers	confess	confessable	confessed	confessedly	confesses	confessing	confession	confessional	confessionals	confessions	confessor	confessors	confetti	confetto	confidant	confidante	confidantes	confidants	confide	confided	confidence	confidences	confident	confidential	confidentiality	confidentially	confidentialness	confidently	confider	confiders	confides	confiding	configuration	configurational	configurations	configurative	configure	configured	configuring	confine	confined	confinement	confinements	confiner	confiners	confines	confining	confirm	confirmable	confirmation	confirmations	confirmatory	confirmed	confirming	confirmor	confirms	confiscate	confiscated	confiscates	confiscating	confiscation	confiscations	confiscator	confiscators	confiscatory	conflagration	conflagrations	conflict	conflicted	conflicting	conflictive	conflicts	confluence	confluences	confluent	conflux	confocal	conform	conformable	conformably	conformation	conformational	conformationally	conformations	conformed	conformer	conformers	conforming	conformism	conformist	conformists	conformities	conformity	conforms	confound	confounded	confoundedly	confounder	confounders	confounding	confounds	confraternities	confraternity	confrere	confreres	confront	confrontation	confrontations	confronted	confronting	confronts	confucian	confucianism	confucians	confucius	confuse	confused	confusedly	confuses	confusing	confusingly	confusion	confusional	confusions	confutable	confutation	confutations	confutative	confutator	confute	confuted	confuter	confuters	confutes	confuting	conga	congaed	congaing	congas	congeal	congealable	congealed	congealing	congealment	congeals	congee	congeed	congees	congener	congeneric	congeners	congenial	congeniality	congenially	congenital	congenitally	conger	congeries	congers	congest	congested	congesting	congestion	congestions	congestive	congests	conglomerate	conglomerated	conglomerates	conglomerating	conglomeration	conglomerations	congo	congoes	congolese	congos	congratulate	congratulated	congratulates	congratulating	congratulation	congratulations	congratulatory	congregant	congregants	congregate	congregated	congregates	congregating	congregation	congregational	congregations	congress	congressed	congresses	congressional	congressionally	congressman	congressmen	congresswoman	congresswomen	congruence	congruences	congruencies	congruency	congruent	congruently	congruities	congruity	congruous	congruously	conic	conical	conically	conicity	conics	conies	conifer	coniferous	conifers	conj	conjecturable	conjectural	conjecture	conjectured	conjectures	conjecturing	conjoin	conjoined	conjoining	conjoins	conjoint	conjointly	conjoints	conjugal	conjugality	conjugally	conjugant	conjugate	conjugated	conjugates	conjugating	conjugation	conjugational	conjugations	conjugator	conjugators	conjunct	conjunction	conjunctions	conjunctiva	conjunctivae	conjunctival	conjunctivas	conjunctive	conjunctives	conjunctivitis	conjuncts	conjuncture	conjunctures	conjuration	conjurations	conjure	conjured	conjurer	conjurers	conjures	conjuring	conjuror	conjurors	conk	conked	conker	conkers	conking	conks	conky	conn	connate	connect	connected	connectedly	connecter	connecters	connecticut	connecting	connection	connections	connective	connectively	connectives	connector	connectors	connects	conned	conner	conners	connie	conning	conniption	conniptions	connivance	connive	connived	conniver	connivers	connivery	connives	conniving	connoisseur	connoisseurs	connotation	connotations	connotative	connote	connoted	connotes	connoting	conns	connubial	conoid	conoidal	conoids	conquer	conquerable	conquered	conquering	conqueror	conquerors	conquers	conquest	conquests	conquian	conquistador	conquistadors	conrail	cons	consanguine	consanguineous	consanguinities	consanguinity	conscience	conscienceless	consciences	conscientious	conscientiously	conscientiousness	conscious	consciously	consciousness	conscript	conscripted	conscripting	conscription	conscripts	conscripttion	consecrate	consecrated	consecrates	consecrating	consecration	consecrations	consecrative	consecrator	consecratory	consecutive	consecutively	consecutiveness	consensual	consensually	consensus	consensuses	consent	consented	consenter	consenters	consenting	consents	consequence	consequences	consequent	consequential	consequentially	consequently	conservable	conservancy	conservation	conservational	conservationism	conservationist	conservationists	conservatism	conservative	conservatively	conservatives	conservator	conservatories	conservators	conservatorship	conservatory	conserve	conserved	conserves	conserving	consider	considerable	considerably	considerate	considerately	consideration	considerations	considered	considering	considers	consign	consignataries	consigned	consignee	consignees	consigning	consignment	consignments	consignor	consignors	consigns	consist	consisted	consistence	consistences	consistencies	consistency	consistent	consistently	consisting	consistorial	consistories	consistory	consists	consitutional	consolation	consolations	consolatory	console	consoled	consoler	consolers	consoles	consolidate	consolidated	consolidates	consolidating	consolidation	consolidations	consolidator	consolidators	consoling	consolingly	consomme	consommes	consonance	consonances	consonant	consonantal	consonantly	consonants	consort	consorted	consortia	consorting	consortium	consortiums	consorts	consortship	conspectus	conspectuses	conspicuous	conspicuously	conspicuousness	conspiracies	conspiracy	conspirator	conspiratorial	conspiratorially	conspirators	conspire	conspired	conspirer	conspirers	conspires	conspiring	conspiringly	constable	constables	constabularies	constabulary	constance	constancy	constant	constantinople	constantly	constants	constellation	constellations	consternate	consternation	constipate	constipated	constipates	constipating	constipation	constituencies	constituency	constituent	constituently	constituents	constitute	constituted	constitutes	constituting	constitution	constitutional	constitutionality	constitutionally	constitutionals	constitutions	constitutive	constrain	constrainable	constrained	constrainedly	constrainer	constrainers	constraining	constrainment	constrains	constraint	constraints	constrict	constricted	constricting	constriction	constrictions	constrictive	constrictor	constrictors	constricts	construable	construct	constructed	constructing	construction	constructionism	constructionist	constructionists	constructions	constructive	constructively	constructiveness	constructor	constructors	constructs	construe	construed	construer	construers	construes	construing	consubstantiation	consul	consular	consulate	consulates	consulating	consuls	consulship	consulships	consult	consultant	consultants	consultation	consultations	consultative	consultatory	consulted	consulter	consulting	consultive	consults	consumable	consume	consumed	consumer	consumerism	consumers	consumes	consuming	consummate	consummated	consummately	consummates	consummating	consummation	consummations	consummator	consummatory	consumption	consumptions	consumptive	consumptively	consumptiveness	consumptives	cont	contact	contacted	contacting	contacts	contagion	contagions	contagious	contagiously	contagiousness	contain	containable	contained	container	containerization	containerize	containerized	containerizes	containerizing	containers	containership	containerships	containing	containment	containments	contains	contaminant	contaminants	contaminate	contaminated	contaminates	contaminating	contamination	contaminations	contaminative	contaminator	conte	contemn	contemned	contemner	contemnor	contemns	contemplate	contemplated	contemplates	contemplating	contemplation	contemplations	contemplative	contemplatively	contemplator	contemplators	contemporaneous	contemporaneously	contemporaries	contemporarily	contemporary	contempt	contemptible	contemptibly	contempts	contemptuous	contemptuously	contemptuousness	contend	contended	contender	contendere	contenders	contending	contends	content	contented	contentedly	contentedness	contenting	contention	contentional	contentions	contentious	contentiously	contentiousness	contently	contentment	contents	conterminous	conterminously	conterminousness	contes	contest	contestable	contestably	contestant	contestants	contestation	contested	contestee	contesting	contests	context	contexts	contextual	contextually	contiguities	contiguity	contiguous	contiguously	contiguousness	continence	continent	continental	continentally	continents	contingence	contingencies	contingency	contingent	contingentiam	contingently	contingents	continua	continuable	continual	continually	continuance	continuances	continuant	continuation	continuations	continue	continued	continuer	continuers	continues	continuing	continuities	continuity	continuo	continuos	continuous	continuously	continuousness	continuum	conto	contort	contorted	contorting	contortion	contortionist	contortionistic	contortionists	contortions	contortive	contorts	contour	contoured	contouring	contours	contra	contraband	contraception	contraceptive	contraceptives	contract	contracted	contractibility	contractible	contractile	contractility	contracting	contraction	contractions	contractive	contractor	contractors	contracts	contractual	contractually	contracture	contradict	contradicted	contradicting	contradiction	contradictions	contradictive	contradictively	contradictorily	contradictory	contradicts	contradistinction	contradistinctions	contradistinctive	contrail	contrails	contraindicate	contraindicated	contraindicates	contraindicating	contraindication	contraindications	contraindicative	contraire	contralto	contraltos	contraption	contraptions	contrapuntal	contraries	contrarieties	contrariety	contrarily	contrariness	contrariwise	contrary	contrast	contrastable	contrasted	contrasting	contrastingly	contrasts	contravene	contravened	contravenes	contravening	contravention	contretemps	contribute	contributed	contributes	contributing	contribution	contributions	contributor	contributories	contributorily	contributors	contributory	contrite	contritely	contriteness	contrition	contrivance	contrivances	contrive	contrived	contrivedly	contriver	contrivers	contrives	contriving	control	controllability	controllable	controllably	controlled	controller	controllers	controlling	controls	controversial	controversially	controversies	controversy	controvert	controverted	controvertible	controverting	controverts	contumacious	contumaciously	contumacy	contumelies	contumelious	contumely	contuse	contused	contuses	contusing	contusion	contusions	conundrum	conundrums	conurbation	conurbations	conus	convalesce	convalesced	convalescence	convalescent	convalescents	convalesces	convalescing	convect	convected	convecting	convection	convectional	convective	convects	convene	convened	convener	conveners	convenes	convenience	conveniences	convenient	conveniently	convening	convent	convented	conventicle	conventicles	conventing	convention	conventional	conventionalism	conventionality	conventionalize	conventionalized	conventionalizes	conventionalizing	conventionally	conventionary	conventioneer	conventioneers	conventions	convents	conventual	converge	converged	convergence	convergency	convergent	converges	converging	conversant	conversation	conversational	conversationalist	conversationalists	conversationally	conversations	converse	conversed	conversely	converses	conversing	conversion	conversions	convert	converted	converter	converters	convertible	convertibles	converting	convertor	convertors	converts	convex	convexes	convexities	convexity	convexly	convexo	convey	conveyable	conveyance	conveyancer	conveyances	conveyancing	conveyed	conveyer	conveyers	conveying	conveyor	conveyors	conveys	convict	convicted	convicting	conviction	convictions	convicts	convince	convinced	convincer	convincers	convinces	convincing	convincingly	convivial	conviviality	convivially	convocation	convocations	convoke	convoked	convoker	convokers	convokes	convoking	convoluted	convolutely	convoluting	convolution	convolutions	convolvulus	convolvuluses	convoy	convoyed	convoying	convoys	convulsant	convulse	convulsed	convulses	convulsing	convulsion	convulsions	convulsive	convulsively	cony	coo	cooch	cooed	cooee	cooeeing	cooees	cooer	cooers	cooey	cooeyed	cooeying	cooeys	cooing	cooingly	cook	cookable	cookbook	cookbooks	cooked	cooker	cookeries	cookers	cookery	cookey	cookeys	cookie	cookies	cooking	cookings	cookout	cookouts	cooks	cookshop	cookshops	cookware	cookwares	cooky	cool	coolant	coolants	cooled	cooler	coolers	coolest	cooley	coolidge	coolie	coolies	cooling	coolish	coolly	coolness	cools	cooly	coomb	coombe	coombes	coombs	coon	cooncan	coonhound	coonhounds	coons	coonskin	coonskins	coop	cooped	cooper	cooperage	cooperate	cooperated	cooperates	cooperating	cooperation	cooperations	cooperative	cooperatively	cooperativeness	cooperatives	cooperator	cooperators	coopered	coopering	coopers	coopery	cooping	coops	coopt	coopted	coopting	cooption	coopts	coordinate	coordinated	coordinately	coordinates	coordinating	coordination	coordinations	coordinative	coordinator	coordinators	coos	coot	cootie	cooties	coots	cop	copal	copals	coparent	coparents	copartner	copartners	copartnership	cope	copeck	coped	copenhagen	copepod	copepods	coper	copernican	copernicus	copers	copes	copied	copier	copiers	copies	copilot	copilots	coping	copings	copious	copiously	copiousness	coplanar	coplot	coplots	copolymer	copolymeric	copolymerization	copolymerizations	copolymerize	copolymerized	copolymerizing	copolymers	copout	copouts	copped	copper	copperas	coppered	copperhead	copperheads	coppering	copperplate	coppers	coppersmith	coppery	coppice	coppiced	coppices	copping	copra	copras	coprocessing	coprocessor	coprocessors	coprolith	coprology	cops	copse	copses	copter	copters	copula	copulae	copular	copulas	copulate	copulated	copulates	copulating	copulation	copulations	copulative	copulatively	copulatory	copy	copybook	copybooks	copyboy	copyboys	copycat	copycats	copycatted	copydesks	copyholder	copyholders	copying	copyist	copyists	copyreader	copyreaders	copyright	copyrightable	copyrighted	copyrighting	copyrights	copywriter	copywriters	coquet	coquetries	coquetry	coquets	coquette	coquetted	coquettes	coquetting	coquettish	coquettishly	coquinas	coracle	coracles	coral	corals	corbel	corbeled	corbels	cord	cordage	cordages	cordate	corded	corder	corders	cordial	cordiality	cordially	cordialness	cordials	cordillera	cordilleran	cordilleras	cording	cordite	cordites	cordless	cordlessly	cordoba	cordobas	cordon	cordoned	cordoning	cordons	cordovan	cordovans	cords	corduroy	corduroys	cordwains	cordwood	cordwoods	core	cored	coredeemed	coreigns	corelate	corelating	coreless	corer	corers	cores	corespondent	corespondents	corgi	corgis	coriander	corianders	coring	corinthian	corinthians	cork	corkage	corkages	corked	corker	corkers	corkier	corkiest	corking	corks	corkscrew	corkscrewed	corkscrewing	corkscrews	corkwood	corkwoods	corky	corm	cormorant	cormorants	corms	corn	cornball	cornballs	cornbread	corncake	corncakes	corncob	corncobs	corncrib	corncribs	cornea	corneal	corneas	corned	cornel	cornell	cornels	corneous	corner	cornerback	cornered	cornering	corners	cornerstone	cornerstones	cornet	cornetist	cornetists	cornets	cornfed	cornfield	cornflower	cornflowers	cornhusk	cornhusks	cornice	corniced	cornices	corniche	cornier	corniest	cornify	cornily	corniness	corning	cornmeal	cornmeals	cornrow	cornrows	corns	cornstalk	cornstalks	cornstarch	cornu	cornucopia	cornucopian	cornucopias	cornucopiate	cornute	corny	corolla	corollaries	corollary	corollas	corona	coronach	coronachs	coronae	coronal	coronals	coronaries	coronary	coronas	coronation	coronations	coronels	coroner	coroners	coronet	coronets	corotate	corp	corpora	corporal	corporally	corporals	corporate	corporately	corporation	corporations	corporative	corpore	corporeal	corporeality	corporeally	corps	corpse	corpses	corpsman	corpsmen	corpulence	corpulences	corpulencies	corpulency	corpulent	corpulently	corpus	corpuscle	corpuscles	corpuscular	corral	corralled	corralling	corrals	correality	correct	correctable	corrected	correcter	correctest	correcting	correction	correctional	corrections	corrective	correctives	correctly	correctness	corrector	corrects	correl	correlatable	correlate	correlated	correlates	correlating	correlation	correlations	correlative	correlatives	correspond	corresponded	correspondence	correspondences	correspondent	correspondents	corresponding	correspondingly	corresponds	corrida	corridas	corridor	corridors	corrigenda	corrigendum	corrigibility	corrigible	corrigibly	corroborate	corroborated	corroborates	corroborating	corroboration	corroborations	corroborative	corroboratively	corroborator	corroborators	corroboratory	corrode	corroded	corroder	corroders	corrodes	corrodibility	corrodible	corroding	corrosion	corrosive	corrosively	corrosiveness	corrosives	corrugate	corrugated	corrugates	corrugating	corrugation	corrugations	corrugator	corrugators	corrupt	corrupted	corrupter	corruptest	corruptibilities	corruptibility	corruptible	corruptibleness	corruptibly	corrupting	corruption	corruptionist	corruptions	corruptive	corruptly	corruptness	corruptor	corrupts	corsage	corsages	corsair	corsairs	corse	corselet	corselets	corses	corset	corseted	corseting	corsets	corslet	corslets	cortege	corteges	cortex	cortexes	cortical	cortically	cortices	cortin	cortisone	corundum	corundums	coruscate	coruscated	coruscates	coruscating	coruscation	coruscations	coruscative	corvee	corvees	corves	corvet	corvets	corvette	corvettes	corvine	corymbs	coryza	coryzal	coryzas	cosec	cosecant	cosecants	cosecs	coset	cosets	cosey	coseys	cosh	coshed	cosher	coshered	coshers	coshes	coshing	cosie	cosier	cosies	cosiest	cosign	cosignatories	cosignatory	cosigned	cosigner	cosigners	cosigning	cosigns	cosily	cosine	cosines	cosiness	cosmetic	cosmetically	cosmetician	cosmetics	cosmetologist	cosmetologists	cosmetology	cosmic	cosmical	cosmically	cosmism	cosmisms	cosmist	cosmists	cosmo	cosmochemical	cosmochemistry	cosmogonic	cosmogonies	cosmogonist	cosmogonists	cosmogony	cosmological	cosmologist	cosmologists	cosmology	cosmonaut	cosmonauts	cosmopolis	cosmopolises	cosmopolitan	cosmopolitanism	cosmopolitans	cosmos	cosmoses	cosponsor	cosponsored	cosponsoring	cosponsors	cosponsorship	cosponsorships	cossack	cossacks	cosset	cosseted	cosseting	cossets	cost	costar	costard	costards	costarred	costarring	costed	coster	costers	costing	costive	costively	costiveness	costless	costlier	costliest	costliness	costly	costs	costume	costumed	costumer	costumers	costumes	costumey	costumier	costumiers	costuming	cosy	cot	cotan	cotangent	cotangents	cotans	cote	coted	coterie	coteries	coterminous	cotes	cotillion	cotillions	cotillon	cots	cotta	cottage	cottager	cottagers	cottages	cottagey	cotter	cotters	cottiers	cotton	cottoned	cottoning	cottonmouth	cottonmouths	cottons	cottonseed	cottonseeds	cottontail	cottontails	cottonwood	cottonwoods	cottony	cotyledon	cotyledonal	cotyledonary	cotyledonous	cotyledons	couch	couchant	couchantly	couched	coucher	couchers	couches	couching	couchings	cougar	cougars	cough	coughed	cougher	coughers	coughing	coughs	could	couldest	couldst	coulee	coulees	coulomb	coulombs	coulter	coulters	council	councillor	councillorship	councilman	councilmen	councilor	councilors	councils	councilwoman	councilwomen	counsel	counselable	counseled	counselee	counseling	counsellable	counselled	counselling	counsellor	counsellors	counselor	counselors	counsels	count	countability	countable	countdown	countdowns	counted	countenance	countenanced	countenances	countenancing	counter	counteract	counteracted	counteracting	counteraction	counteractions	counteractive	counteractively	counteracts	counterattack	counterattacked	counterattacking	counterattacks	counterbalance	counterbalanced	counterbalances	counterbalancing	counterblow	counterclaim	counterclaimed	counterclaiming	counterclaims	counterclassification	counterclassifications	counterclockwise	counterculture	countercultures	countercurrent	countered	counterespionage	counterfeit	counterfeited	counterfeiter	counterfeiters	counterfeiting	counterfeitly	counterfeitness	counterfeits	countering	counterinsurgencies	counterinsurgency	counterinsurgent	counterinsurgents	counterintelligence	countermaid	counterman	countermand	countermanded	countermanding	countermands	countermeasure	countermeasures	countermen	counteroffensive	counteroffensives	counteroffer	counteropening	counterpane	counterpanes	counterpart	counterparts	counterphobic	counterplea	counterplot	counterplotted	counterplotting	counterpoint	counterpointed	counterpointing	counterpoints	counterpoise	counterpoised	counterpoises	counterpoising	counterproductive	counterrevolution	counterrevolutionaries	counterrevolutionary	counterrevolutions	counters	countersank	countershock	countersign	countersignature	countersignatures	countersigned	countersigning	countersigns	countersink	countersinking	countersinks	counterspies	counterspy	countersunk	countertenor	countertenors	countervail	countervailed	countervailing	countervails	counterweight	counterweights	countess	countesses	countian	counties	counting	countless	countries	countrified	country	countryman	countrymen	countryside	countrywide	countrywoman	countrywomen	counts	county	county's	coup	coupe	couped	coupes	couping	couple	coupled	coupler	couplers	couples	couplet	couplets	coupling	couplings	coupon	coupons	coups	courage	courageous	courageously	courageousness	courages	courant	courante	courants	courier	couriers	course	coursed	courser	coursers	courses	coursing	coursings	court	courted	courteous	courteously	courteousness	courter	courters	courtesan	courtesans	courtesied	courtesies	courtesy	courthouse	courthouses	courtier	courtiers	courting	courtlier	courtliest	courtliness	courtly	courtroom	courtrooms	courts	courtship	courtships	courtyard	courtyards	couscous	couscouses	cousin	cousinly	cousinry	cousins	couth	couther	couthest	couthier	couths	couture	coutures	couturier	couturiere	couturieres	couturiers	covalence	covalences	covalent	covalently	cove	coved	coven	covenant	covenanted	covenantee	covenanting	covenantor	covenants	covens	cover	coverage	coverages	coverall	coveralls	covered	coverer	coverers	covering	coverings	coverlet	coverlets	coverlid	coverlids	covers	coverslip	covert	covertly	covertness	coverts	coverture	coverup	coverups	coves	covet	coveted	coveter	coveters	coveting	covetous	covetously	covetousness	covets	covey	coveys	coving	covings	cow	cowages	coward	cowardice	cowardliness	cowardly	cowards	cowbane	cowbell	cowbells	cowbird	cowbirds	cowboy	cowboys	cowcatcher	cowcatchers	cowed	cowedly	cower	cowered	cowering	cowers	cowfish	cowgirl	cowgirls	cowhand	cowhands	cowherb	cowherd	cowherds	cowhide	cowhided	cowhides	cowier	cowiest	cowing	cowkine	cowl	cowled	cowlick	cowlicks	cowling	cowlings	cowls	cowman	cowmen	coworker	coworkers	cowpat	cowpats	cowpea	cowpeas	cowpoke	cowpokes	cowpox	cowpoxes	cowpuncher	cowpunchers	cowrie	cowries	cowry	cows	cowshed	cowsheds	cowskin	cowskins	cowslip	cowslips	coxcomb	coxcombs	coxswain	coxswains	coxwain	coxwaining	coxwains	coy	coyer	coyest	coyish	coyly	coyness	coynesses	coyote	coyotes	coypu	coypus	cozen	cozenage	cozened	cozener	cozeners	cozening	cozens	cozes	cozey	cozeys	cozie	cozier	cozies	coziest	cozily	coziness	cozy	cpi	cpl	cps	cpu	cr	craal	craals	crab	crabapple	crabbed	crabbedness	crabber	crabbers	crabbier	crabbiest	crabbily	crabbiness	crabbing	crabby	crabgrass	crabs	crabwise	crack	crackdown	crackdowns	cracked	cracker	crackerjack	crackerjacks	crackers	cracking	crackings	crackle	crackled	crackles	cracklier	crackliest	crackling	crackly	cracknel	cracknels	crackpot	crackpots	cracks	cracksman	crackup	crackups	cracky	cradle	cradled	cradler	cradlers	cradles	cradlesong	cradlesongs	cradling	craft	crafted	craftier	craftiest	craftily	craftiness	crafting	crafts	craftsman	craftsmanly	craftsmanship	craftsmen	crafty	crag	cragged	craggier	craggiest	craggily	cragginess	craggy	crags	cragsman	cragsmen	cram	crambos	crammed	crammer	crammers	cramming	cramp	cramped	cramping	crampon	crampons	cramps	crams	cranberries	cranberry	cranched	cranches	cranching	crane	craned	cranes	crania	cranial	cranially	craniate	craning	craniofacial	cranium	craniums	crank	crankcase	crankcases	cranked	cranker	crankest	crankier	crankiest	crankily	crankiness	cranking	crankpin	crankpins	cranks	crankshaft	crankshafts	cranky	crannied	crannies	cranny	crap	crape	craped	crapes	craping	crapped	crapper	crappers	crappie	crappier	crappies	crappiest	crappiness	crapping	crappy	craps	crapshooter	crapshooters	crapulence	crapulent	crapulous	crash	crashed	crasher	crashers	crashes	crashing	crass	crasser	crassest	crassly	crassness	crate	crated	crater	cratered	cratering	craters	crates	crating	craton	cratons	cravat	cravats	crave	craved	craven	cravened	cravenly	cravenness	cravens	craver	cravers	craves	craving	cravingly	cravings	craw	crawdad	crawdads	crawfish	crawfished	crawfishes	crawl	crawled	crawler	crawlers	crawlier	crawliest	crawling	crawls	crawlspace	crawlway	crawlways	crawly	craws	crayfish	crayfishes	crayon	crayoned	crayoning	crayonist	crayonists	crayons	craze	crazed	crazes	crazier	crazies	craziest	crazily	craziness	crazing	crazy	crc	creak	creaked	creakier	creakiest	creakily	creakiness	creaking	creaks	creaky	cream	creamed	creamer	creameries	creamers	creamery	creamier	creamiest	creamily	creaminess	creaming	creams	creamy	crease	creased	creaser	creasers	creases	creasier	creasiest	creasing	creasy	create	created	creates	creating	creation	creations	creative	creatively	creativeness	creativity	creator	creators	creature	creatures	creche	creches	credence	credences	credential	credentialed	credentials	credenza	credenzas	credibilities	credibility	credible	credibleness	credibly	credit	creditabilities	creditability	creditable	creditableness	creditably	credited	crediting	creditor	creditors	credits	credo	credos	credulity	credulous	credulously	cree	creed	creedal	creeds	creek	creeks	creel	creels	creep	creepage	creepages	creeper	creepers	creepie	creepier	creepies	creepiest	creepily	creepiness	creeping	creeps	creepy	crees	cremate	cremated	cremates	cremating	cremation	cremations	cremator	crematoria	crematories	crematorium	crematoriums	cremators	crematory	creme	cremes	crenate	crenated	crenation	crenel	crenelate	crenelated	crenelates	crenelating	crenelation	crenelations	creneled	crenels	creole	creoles	creosote	creosoted	creosotes	creosoting	crepe	creped	crepes	crepey	crepier	creping	crepitant	crepitation	crepitus	crept	crepuscular	crepy	crescendo	crescendos	crescent	crescentic	crescents	cress	cresses	cresset	cressets	crest	crestal	crested	crestfallen	crestfallenly	cresting	crestings	crestless	crests	cretaceous	crete	cretic	cretin	cretinism	cretinize	cretinized	cretinizing	cretinous	cretins	cretonne	crevasse	crevasses	crevassing	crevice	creviced	crevices	crew	crewcut	crewed	crewel	crewels	crewelwork	crewing	crewless	crewman	crewmen	crews	crib	cribbage	cribbages	cribbed	cribber	cribbers	cribbing	cribbings	cribs	cribwork	cribworks	crick	cricked	cricket	cricketer	cricketers	cricketing	crickets	cricking	cricks	cried	crier	criers	cries	crime	crimea	crimean	crimeless	crimes	criminal	criminalities	criminality	criminally	criminalness	criminals	criminated	criminologic	criminological	criminologically	criminologies	criminologist	criminologists	criminology	crimp	crimped	crimper	crimpers	crimpier	crimpiest	crimping	crimps	crimpy	crimson	crimsoned	crimsoning	crimsons	cringe	cringed	cringer	cringers	cringes	cringing	cringles	crinites	crinkle	crinkled	crinkles	crinklier	crinkliest	crinkliness	crinkling	crinkly	crinoids	crinoline	crinolines	cripple	crippled	crippler	cripplers	cripples	crippling	crises	crisic	crisis	crisp	crisped	crispen	crispened	crispening	crispens	crisper	crispers	crispest	crispier	crispiest	crispily	crispiness	crisping	crisply	crispness	crisps	crispy	crisscross	crisscrossed	crisscrosses	crisscrossing	criteria	criterion	criterions	critic	critical	criticality	critically	criticalness	criticism	criticisms	criticizable	criticize	criticized	criticizer	criticizers	criticizes	criticizing	critics	critique	critiqued	critiques	critiquing	critter	critters	crittur	critturs	croak	croaked	croaker	croakers	croakier	croakiest	croakily	croakiness	croaking	croaks	croaky	crochet	crocheted	crocheter	crocheters	crocheting	crochets	croci	crock	crocked	crockeries	crockery	crocket	crockets	crocking	crocks	crocodile	crocodiles	crocus	crocuses	croft	crofter	crofters	crofts	croissant	croissants	cromwell	cromwellian	crone	crones	cronies	crony	cronyism	cronyisms	crook	crooked	crookeder	crookedest	crookedly	crookedness	crookeries	crookery	crooking	crookneck	crooknecks	crooks	croon	crooned	crooner	crooners	crooning	croons	crop	cropland	croplands	cropless	cropped	cropper	croppers	cropping	crops	croquet	croqueted	croqueting	croquets	croquette	croquettes	crosby	crosier	crosiers	cross	crossability	crossarm	crossbar	crossbars	crossbeam	crossbeams	crossbones	crossbow	crossbows	crossbred	crossbreed	crossbreeding	crossbreeds	crosscurrent	crosscurrents	crosscut	crosscuts	crosscutting	crosse	crossed	crosser	crossers	crosses	crossest	crosshatch	crosshatched	crosshatches	crosshatching	crossing	crossings	crosslet	crossly	crossness	crossover	crossovers	crosspatch	crosspatches	crosspiece	crosspieces	crossroad	crossroads	crosstalk	crosstie	crossties	crosstown	crosswalk	crosswalks	crossway	crossways	crosswise	crossword	crosswords	crotch	crotched	crotches	crotchet	crotchetiness	crotchets	crotchety	crouch	crouched	crouches	crouching	croup	croupier	croupiers	croupiest	croupily	croups	croupy	crouton	croutons	crow	crowbar	crowbars	crowd	crowded	crowdedness	crowder	crowders	crowdies	crowding	crowds	crowdy	crowed	crower	crowers	crowfeet	crowfoot	crowfoots	crowing	crown	crowned	crowner	crowners	crownets	crowning	crowns	crows	crowsteps	crozier	croziers	crucial	crucially	crucialness	cruciate	crucible	crucibles	crucifer	crucified	crucifies	crucifix	crucifixes	crucifixion	crucifixions	cruciform	crucify	crucifying	crud	crudded	crudding	cruddy	crude	crudely	crudeness	cruder	crudes	crudest	crudities	crudity	cruds	cruel	crueler	cruelest	crueller	cruellest	cruelly	cruelness	cruelties	cruelty	cruet	cruets	cruise	cruised	cruiser	cruisers	cruises	cruising	cruller	crullers	crumb	crumbed	crumber	crumbers	crumbier	crumbiest	crumbing	crumble	crumbled	crumbles	crumblier	crumbliest	crumbliness	crumbling	crumblings	crumbly	crumbs	crumby	crummie	crummier	crummies	crummiest	crummy	crump	crumped	crumpet	crumpets	crumping	crumple	crumpled	crumples	crumpling	crumply	crumps	crunch	crunched	cruncher	crunchers	crunches	crunchier	crunchiest	crunching	crunchy	crupper	cruppers	crusade	crusaded	crusader	crusaders	crusades	crusading	crusados	cruse	crush	crushable	crushed	crusher	crushers	crushes	crushing	crushproof	crust	crustacea	crustacean	crustaceans	crustal	crusted	crustier	crustiest	crustily	crusting	crusts	crusty	crutch	crutched	crutches	crux	cruxes	cruzados	cruzeiro	cruzeiros	cry	crybabies	crybaby	crying	cryingly	cryobiologically	cryobiology	cryogen	cryogenic	cryogenically	cryogenics	cryogenies	cryogens	cryogeny	cryolite	cryonic	cryonics	cryostat	cryostats	cryosurgeon	cryosurgery	cryosurgical	cryotherapies	cryotherapy	cryotron	cryotrons	crypt	cryptal	cryptic	cryptically	crypto	cryptogam	cryptogram	cryptograms	cryptograph	cryptographer	cryptographers	cryptographic	cryptography	cryptos	crypts	crystal	crystalize	crystalline	crystallization	crystallize	crystallized	crystallizer	crystallizes	crystallizing	crystallogram	crystallographer	crystallographers	crystallographic	crystallography	crystalloid	crystalloidal	crystals	cs	csp	cst	ct	ctg	ctrl	cts	cub	cuba	cubage	cubages	cuban	cubans	cubature	cubbies	cubbish	cubby	cubbyhole	cubbyholes	cube	cubebs	cubed	cuber	cubers	cubes	cubic	cubical	cubicity	cubicle	cubicles	cubicly	cubics	cubiform	cubing	cubism	cubisms	cubist	cubistic	cubists	cubit	cubital	cubits	cuboid	cuboidal	cuboids	cubs	cuckold	cuckolded	cuckolding	cuckoldry	cuckolds	cuckoo	cuckooed	cuckooing	cuckoos	cucumber	cucumbers	cucurbit	cud	cudbears	cuddies	cuddle	cuddled	cuddles	cuddlesome	cuddlier	cuddliest	cuddling	cuddly	cuddy	cudgel	cudgeled	cudgeler	cudgelers	cudgeling	cudgelled	cudgelling	cudgels	cuds	cudweed	cudweeds	cue	cued	cueing	cues	cuesta	cuestas	cuff	cuffed	cuffing	cuffless	cufflinks	cuffs	cuing	cuirass	cuirassed	cuirasses	cuirassing	cuish	cuishes	cuisine	cuisines	cuke	cukes	culinary	cull	culled	cullender	culler	cullers	cullet	cullets	cullied	cullies	culling	culls	cully	culminate	culminated	culminates	culminating	culmination	culminations	culms	culotte	culottes	culpa	culpability	culpable	culpableness	culpably	culpae	culpas	culprit	culprits	cult	cultic	cultigen	cultism	cultisms	cultist	cultists	cultivable	cultivar	cultivatable	cultivate	cultivated	cultivates	cultivating	cultivation	cultivations	cultivator	cultivators	cults	cultural	culturally	culture	cultured	cultures	culturing	culver	culvers	culvert	culverts	cum	cumber	cumbered	cumberer	cumberers	cumbering	cumbers	cumbersome	cumbersomeness	cumbrous	cumbrously	cumin	cumins	cummerbund	cummerbunds	cummers	cummin	cumquat	cumquats	cumshaw	cumshaws	cumulate	cumulated	cumulates	cumulating	cumulative	cumulatively	cumuli	cumulonimbus	cumulous	cumulus	cuneate	cuneiform	cuniform	cunner	cunners	cunni	cunnilinctus	cunnilinguism	cunnilingus	cunning	cunninger	cunningest	cunningly	cunningness	cunnings	cunt	cunts	cup	cupbearer	cupbearers	cupboard	cupboards	cupcake	cupcakes	cupful	cupfuls	cupholder	cupid	cupidities	cupidity	cupids	cupola	cupolaed	cupolas	cuppa	cuppas	cupped	cupper	cuppers	cuppier	cupping	cuppings	cuppy	cupreous	cupric	cuprite	cuprites	cupronickel	cuprous	cuprums	cups	cupsful	cur	curability	curable	curableness	curably	curacao	curacaos	curacies	curacy	curara	curare	curares	curari	curarization	curate	curates	curative	curatively	curatives	curator	curatorial	curators	curatorship	curatrices	curatrix	curb	curbable	curbed	curber	curbers	curbing	curbings	curbs	curbside	curbstone	curbstones	curd	curded	curdier	curding	curdle	curdled	curdler	curdlers	curdles	curdling	curds	curdy	cure	cured	cureless	curer	curers	cures	curets	curettage	curette	curetted	curettes	curetting	curfew	curfewed	curfewing	curfews	curia	curiae	curial	curie	curies	curing	curio	curios	curiosa	curiosities	curiosity	curious	curiouser	curiousest	curiously	curiousness	curium	curiums	curl	curled	curler	curlers	curlew	curlews	curlicue	curlicued	curlicues	curlicuing	curlier	curliest	curlily	curliness	curling	curlings	curls	curly	curlycue	curlycues	curmudgeon	curmudgeons	curran	currant	currants	curred	currencies	currency	current	currently	currentness	currents	curricula	curricular	curriculum	curriculums	currie	curried	currier	curriers	curriery	curries	curring	currish	curry	currycomb	currycombed	currycombing	currycombs	currying	curs	curse	cursed	curseder	cursedest	cursedly	cursedness	curser	cursers	curses	cursing	cursive	cursively	cursiveness	cursives	cursor	cursorily	cursoriness	cursors	cursory	curst	curt	curtail	curtailed	curtailing	curtailment	curtailments	curtails	curtain	curtained	curtaining	curtains	curter	curtesies	curtest	curtesy	curtly	curtness	curtsey	curtseyed	curtseying	curtseys	curtsied	curtsies	curtsy	curtsying	curvaceous	curvaceously	curvature	curvatures	curve	curved	curvedly	curves	curvet	curveted	curvets	curvetting	curvey	curvier	curviest	curviness	curving	curvy	cuscus	cushier	cushiest	cushily	cushiness	cushing	cushion	cushioned	cushioning	cushions	cushiony	cushy	cusp	cuspated	cusped	cuspid	cuspidal	cuspidated	cuspidor	cuspidors	cuspids	cusps	cuss	cussed	cussedly	cusser	cussers	cusses	cussing	cussword	cusswords	custard	custards	custodial	custodian	custodians	custodianship	custodies	custody	custom	customarily	customary	customer	customers	customhouse	customhouses	customization	customize	customized	customizes	customizing	customs	customshouse	cut	cutaneous	cutaneously	cutaway	cutaways	cutback	cutbacks	cutcheries	cutdown	cutdowns	cute	cutely	cuteness	cuter	cutes	cutesier	cutesiest	cutest	cutesy	cutey	cuteys	cuticle	cuticles	cuticular	cutie	cuties	cutin	cutinizing	cutins	cutis	cutlas	cutlases	cutlass	cutlasses	cutler	cutleries	cutlers	cutlery	cutlet	cutlets	cutlines	cutoff	cutoffs	cutout	cutouts	cutpurse	cutpurses	cuts	cuttable	cuttages	cutter	cutters	cutthroat	cutthroats	cutting	cuttings	cuttle	cuttlebone	cuttlebones	cuttled	cuttlefish	cuttlefishes	cuttles	cuttling	cutty	cutup	cutups	cutworm	cutworms	cwt	cyan	cyanic	cyanide	cyanided	cyanides	cyanin	cyanitic	cyanoacrylate	cyanogen	cyanosed	cyanoses	cyanosis	cyanotic	cyans	cybercultural	cyberculture	cybernated	cybernation	cybernetic	cybernetical	cybernetically	cybernetician	cyberneticist	cyberneticists	cybernetics	cyborg	cyborgs	cycad	cycads	cyclamate	cyclamates	cyclamen	cyclamens	cyclazocine	cycle	cyclecar	cyclecars	cycled	cycler	cyclers	cycles	cyclic	cyclical	cyclically	cyclicly	cycling	cyclings	cyclist	cyclists	cyclized	cyclizes	cyclizing	cyclo	cycloid	cycloidal	cycloids	cyclometer	cyclometers	cyclonal	cyclone	cyclones	cyclonic	cyclonically	cyclopedia	cyclopedias	cyclopes	cyclops	cyclos	cyclotron	cyclotrons	cygnet	cygnets	cylinder	cylindered	cylinders	cylindrical	cylindrically	cymbal	cymbaler	cymbalers	cymbalist	cymbalists	cymbals	cymbling	cyme	cymes	cymose	cynic	cynical	cynically	cynicism	cynicisms	cynics	cynosure	cynosures	cypher	cyphered	cyphering	cyphers	cypres	cypreses	cypress	cypresses	cyprian	cyprians	cypriot	cypriote	cypriotes	cypriots	cyprus	cypruses	cyst	cystectomies	cystic	cystitis	cysts	cytologic	cytological	cytologically	cytologies	cytologist	cytologists	cytology	cytoplasm	cytoplasmic	cytosine	czar	czardas	czardases	czardom	czardoms	czarevna	czarevnas	czarina	czarinas	czarism	czarisms	czarist	czarists	czaritza	czaritzas	czars	czech	czechoslovak	czechoslovakia	czechoslovakian	czechoslovakians	czechoslovaks	czechs	dab	dabbed	dabbing	dabble	dabbled	dabbler	dabblers	dabbles	dabbling	dabblings	dabs	dace	daces	dacha	dachas	dachshund	dachshunds	dacoit	dacoits	dacron	dactyl	dactylic	dactyls	dactylus	dad	dada	dadaism	dadaisms	dadaist	dadaists	dadas	daddies	daddling	daddy	dado	dadoed	dadoes	dadoing	dados	dads	daemon	daemonic	daemons	daffier	daffiest	daffiness	daffodil	daffodils	daffy	daft	dafter	daftest	daftly	daftness	dagger	daggered	daggers	dago	dagoba	dagobas	dagoes	dagos	daguerreotype	daguerreotypes	dahlia	dahlias	dahomey	dailies	daily	daimon	daimonic	daimons	daimyo	daimyos	daintier	dainties	daintiest	daintily	daintiness	dainty	daiquiri	daiquiris	dairies	dairy	dairying	dairymaid	dairymaids	dairyman	dairymen	dais	daises	daisied	daisies	daisy	dakoit	dakoits	dakota	dakotan	dakotans	dakotas	dale	dales	dalesman	dalesmen	daleth	daleths	dallas	dalles	dalliance	dalliances	dallied	dallier	dalliers	dallies	dally	dallying	dalmatian	dalmatians	dam	damage	damageable	damaged	damager	damagers	damages	damaging	damagingly	damascene	damascened	damascenes	damascus	damask	damasked	damasks	dame	dames	dammed	dammer	dammers	damming	damn	damnabilities	damnability	damnable	damnableness	damnably	damnation	damndest	damned	damneder	damnedest	damner	damners	damnification	damnify	damnifying	damning	damnit	damns	damocles	damosel	damosels	damozels	damp	damped	dampen	dampened	dampener	dampeners	dampening	dampens	damper	dampers	dampest	damping	dampish	damply	dampness	damps	dams	damsel	damselflies	damselfly	damsels	damson	damsons	dan	dana	dance	danced	dancer	dancers	dances	dancing	dancingly	dandelion	dandelions	dander	dandered	danders	dandier	dandies	dandiest	dandification	dandified	dandifies	dandify	dandifying	dandily	dandle	dandled	dandler	dandlers	dandles	dandling	dandruff	dandy	dandyish	dandyism	dandyisms	dane	danegeld	danegelds	danes	daneweed	danewort	dang	danged	danger	dangered	dangerous	dangerously	dangerousness	dangers	danging	dangle	dangled	dangler	danglers	dangles	dangling	dangs	daniel	danish	dank	danker	dankest	dankly	dankness	danseur	danseurs	danseuse	danseuses	dante	danube	daphnia	daphnias	dapper	dapperer	dapperest	dapperly	dapperness	dapping	dapple	dappled	dapples	dappling	dare	dared	daredevil	daredevils	dareful	darer	darers	dares	daresay	daring	daringly	daringness	darings	dark	darked	darken	darkened	darkener	darkeners	darkening	darkens	darker	darkest	darkey	darkeys	darkhaired	darkie	darkies	darking	darkish	darkle	darkled	darkles	darklier	darkliest	darkling	darkly	darkness	darkroom	darkrooms	darks	darksome	darky	darling	darlings	darn	darndest	darndests	darned	darneder	darnedest	darnel	darnels	darner	darners	darning	darnings	darns	dart	darted	darter	darters	darting	darts	darvon	darwin	darwinian	darwinians	darwinism	darwinist	darwinists	darwinite	dash	dashboard	dashboards	dashed	dasher	dashers	dashes	dashier	dashiki	dashikis	dashing	dashingly	dashpot	dashpots	dashy	dastard	dastardliness	dastardly	dastards	data	database	databases	datable	dataflow	datamation	datary	datcha	datchas	date	dateable	dated	datedly	datedness	dateless	dateline	datelined	datelines	datelining	dater	daters	dates	dating	dative	datively	datives	datsun	datsuns	datum	datums	datura	daturas	daub	daubed	dauber	dauberies	daubers	daubery	daubes	daubier	daubing	daubs	dauby	daughter	daughterly	daughters	daunt	daunted	daunter	daunters	daunting	dauntless	dauntlessly	dauntlessness	daunts	dauphin	dauphine	dauphins	dave	davenport	davenports	david	davies	davis	davit	davits	daw	dawdle	dawdled	dawdler	dawdlers	dawdles	dawdling	dawn	dawned	dawning	dawns	day	daybed	daybeds	daybook	daybooks	daybreak	daybreaks	daydream	daydreamed	daydreamer	daydreamers	daydreaming	daydreams	daydreamt	dayflies	dayflower	dayflowers	dayfly	dayglow	dayglows	daylight	daylighted	daylights	daylilies	daylily	daylit	daylong	daymare	dayroom	dayrooms	days	dayside	daysides	daystar	daystars	daytime	daytimes	dayton	daze	dazed	dazedly	dazedness	dazes	dazing	dazzle	dazzled	dazzler	dazzlers	dazzles	dazzling	dazzlingly	db	dbl	dbms	dc	de	deaccession	deaccessioned	deaccessioning	deaccessions	deacidification	deacidified	deacidifying	deacon	deaconed	deaconess	deaconesses	deaconing	deaconries	deaconry	deacons	deactivate	deactivated	deactivates	deactivating	deactivation	deactivations	deactivator	deactivators	dead	deadbeat	deadbeats	deaden	deadened	deadener	deadeners	deadening	deadens	deader	deadest	deadeye	deadeyes	deadfall	deadfalls	deadhead	deadheaded	deadheads	deadlier	deadliest	deadline	deadlines	deadliness	deadlock	deadlocked	deadlocking	deadlocks	deadly	deadman	deadness	deadpan	deadpanned	deadpans	deads	deadweight	deadwood	deadwoods	deaf	deafen	deafened	deafening	deafens	deafer	deafest	deafish	deafly	deafness	deair	deairs	deal	dealcoholization	dealer	dealers	dealership	dealerships	dealing	dealings	deals	dealt	dean	deaneries	deanery	deaning	deans	deanship	deanships	dear	dearer	dearest	dearie	dearies	dearly	dearness	dears	dearth	dearths	deary	deash	death	deathbed	deathbeds	deathblow	deathblows	deathcup	deathcups	deathful	deathless	deathlessly	deathlessness	deathlike	deathly	deathrate	deaths	deathtrap	deathtraps	deathwatch	deathwatches	deathy	deb	debacle	debacles	debar	debark	debarkation	debarkations	debarked	debarking	debarks	debarment	debarred	debarring	debars	debase	debased	debasedness	debasement	debaser	debasers	debases	debasing	debatable	debatably	debate	debateable	debated	debater	debaters	debates	debating	debauch	debauched	debauchedly	debauchedness	debauchee	debauchees	debaucher	debaucheries	debauchery	debauches	debauching	debbie	debenture	debentures	debilitant	debilitate	debilitated	debilitates	debilitating	debilitation	debilitations	debilitative	debilities	debility	debit	debitable	debited	debiting	debits	debonair	debonairly	debonairness	debone	debouch	debouche	debouched	debouches	debouching	debrided	debrief	debriefed	debriefing	debriefings	debriefs	debris	debruising	debs	debt	debtee	debtless	debtor	debtors	debts	debug	debugged	debugger	debuggers	debugging	debugs	debunk	debunked	debunker	debunkers	debunking	debunks	debussy	debut	debutant	debutante	debutantes	debutants	debuted	debuting	debuts	dec	decade	decadence	decadent	decadently	decadents	decades	decaffeinate	decaffeinated	decaffeinates	decaffeinating	decagon	decagons	decagram	decahedra	decahedron	decahedrons	decal	decalcification	decalcified	decalcifies	decalcify	decalcifying	decalcomania	decalcomanias	decaliters	decals	decameter	decameters	decamp	decamped	decamping	decampment	decamps	decant	decanted	decanter	decanters	decanting	decants	decapitate	decapitated	decapitates	decapitating	decapitation	decapitations	decapitator	decapod	decapods	decapsulate	decares	decasyllabic	decasyllable	decasyllables	decathlon	decathlons	decay	decayable	decayed	decayedness	decayer	decayers	decaying	decays	decease	deceased	deceases	deceasing	decedent	decedents	deceit	deceitful	deceitfully	deceitfulness	deceits	deceivable	deceive	deceived	deceiver	deceivers	deceives	deceiving	deceivingly	decelerate	decelerated	decelerates	decelerating	deceleration	decelerations	decelerator	decelerators	december	decemvir	decenaries	decenary	decencies	decency	decennia	decennial	decennially	decennials	decenniums	decent	decenter	decentered	decentest	decently	decentralism	decentralist	decentralization	decentralizations	decentralize	decentralized	decentralizes	decentralizing	decentring	deception	deceptions	deceptive	deceptively	deceptiveness	decertification	decertified	decertifying	dechlorinate	dechlorinated	dechlorinating	dechlorination	deciare	deciares	decibel	decibels	decidable	decide	decided	decidedly	decider	deciders	decides	deciding	decidua	decidual	deciduous	deciduously	deciduousness	decigram	decigrams	decile	deciliter	deciliters	decimal	decimalization	decimalize	decimalized	decimalizes	decimalizing	decimally	decimals	decimate	decimated	decimates	decimating	decimation	decimeter	decimeters	decipher	decipherable	deciphered	deciphering	deciphers	decision	decisional	decisions	decisive	decisively	decisiveness	decistere	decisteres	deck	decked	decker	deckers	deckhand	deckhands	decking	deckings	deckle	deckles	decks	declaim	declaimed	declaimer	declaimers	declaiming	declaims	declamation	declamations	declamatory	declarable	declarant	declaration	declarations	declarative	declaratively	declarator	declaratory	declare	declared	declarer	declarers	declares	declaring	declasse	declassification	declassifications	declassified	declassifies	declassify	declassifying	declassing	declension	declensions	declinable	declination	declinational	declinations	declinatory	declinature	decline	declined	decliner	decliners	declines	declining	declivities	declivity	deco	decoct	decocted	decocting	decoction	decocts	decode	decoded	decoder	decoders	decodes	decoding	decodings	decollated	decollete	decolonization	decolonize	decolonized	decolonizes	decolonizing	decommission	decommissioned	decommissioning	decommissions	decompensate	decompensated	decompensates	decompensating	decompensation	decompensations	decomposability	decomposable	decompose	decomposed	decomposer	decomposers	decomposes	decomposing	decomposition	decompositions	decompress	decompressed	decompresses	decompressing	decompression	decompressions	decompressive	decongest	decongestant	decongestants	decongested	decongesting	decongestion	decongestive	decongests	decontaminate	decontaminated	decontaminates	decontaminating	decontamination	decontaminations	decontaminator	decontaminators	decontrol	decontrolled	decontrolling	decontrols	decor	decorate	decorated	decorates	decorating	decoration	decorations	decorative	decoratively	decorativeness	decorator	decorators	decorous	decorously	decorousness	decors	decorticate	decorum	decorums	decoupage	decouple	decoy	decoyed	decoyer	decoyers	decoying	decoys	decrease	decreased	decreases	decreasing	decreasingly	decree	decreed	decreeing	decreer	decreers	decrees	decrement	decrements	decrepit	decrepitly	decrepitude	decrescendo	decrescendos	decrial	decrials	decried	decrier	decriers	decries	decriminalization	decriminalize	decriminalized	decriminalizes	decriminalizing	decrowns	decry	decrying	decrypt	decrypted	decrypting	decryption	decryptions	decrypts	dedicate	dedicated	dedicatee	dedicates	dedicating	dedication	dedicational	dedications	dedicator	dedicators	dedicatory	deduce	deduced	deduces	deducible	deducing	deduct	deducted	deductibility	deductible	deductibles	deducting	deduction	deductions	deductive	deductively	deducts	deed	deedbox	deeded	deedier	deeding	deedless	deeds	deedy	deejay	deejays	deem	deemed	deeming	deemphasis	deemphasize	deemphasized	deemphasizes	deemphasizing	deems	deep	deepen	deepened	deepener	deepeners	deepening	deepens	deeper	deepest	deeply	deepness	deeps	deer	deerfly	deerflys	deers	deerskin	deerskins	deerstalker	deerstalkers	deerweed	deerweeds	deeryard	dees	deescalate	deescalated	deescalates	deescalating	deescalation	deescalations	deface	defaced	defacement	defacements	defacer	defacers	defaces	defacing	defacto	defalcate	defalcated	defalcates	defalcating	defalcation	defalcations	defamation	defamations	defamatory	defame	defamed	defamer	defamers	defames	defaming	defamingly	defat	defats	defatted	default	defaulted	defaulter	defaulters	defaulting	defaults	defeat	defeated	defeater	defeaters	defeating	defeatism	defeatist	defeatists	defeats	defecate	defecated	defecates	defecating	defecation	defect	defected	defecter	defecters	defecting	defection	defections	defective	defectively	defectiveness	defector	defectors	defects	defeminize	defeminized	defeminizing	defence	defences	defend	defendable	defendant	defendants	defended	defender	defenders	defending	defends	defense	defensed	defenseless	defenselessly	defenselessness	defenses	defensibility	defensible	defensibly	defensing	defensive	defensively	defensiveness	defer	deference	deferent	deferential	deferentially	deferment	deferments	deferrable	deferral	deferrals	deferred	deferrer	deferrers	deferring	defers	defiance	defiances	defiant	defiantly	defibrillate	deficiencies	deficiency	deficient	deficiently	deficit	deficits	defied	defier	defiers	defies	defile	defiled	defilement	defilements	defiler	defilers	defiles	defiling	defilingly	definable	definably	define	defined	definement	definer	definers	defines	defining	definite	definitely	definiteness	definition	definitions	definitive	definitively	definitiveness	deflagrate	deflagrated	deflagrates	deflagrating	deflagration	deflagrations	deflate	deflated	deflates	deflating	deflation	deflationary	deflations	deflator	deflators	deflea	deflect	deflectable	deflected	deflecting	deflection	deflections	deflective	deflector	deflectors	deflects	defloration	deflorations	deflorescence	deflower	deflowered	deflowering	deflowers	defoam	defoamed	defoamer	defog	defogged	defogger	defoggers	defogging	defogs	defoliant	defoliants	defoliate	defoliated	defoliates	defoliating	defoliation	defoliations	defoliator	defoliators	deforest	deforestation	deforested	deforesting	deforests	deform	deformable	deformation	deformations	deformative	deformed	deformer	deformers	deforming	deformities	deformity	deforms	defraud	defraudation	defrauded	defrauder	defrauders	defrauding	defrauds	defray	defrayable	defrayal	defrayals	defrayed	defrayer	defrayers	defraying	defrayment	defrays	defrock	defrocked	defrocking	defrocks	defrost	defrosted	defroster	defrosters	defrosting	defrosts	deft	defter	deftest	deftly	deftness	defunct	defunctive	defunctness	defuse	defused	defuses	defusing	defuze	defuzed	defuzes	defuzing	defy	defying	degas	degass	degassed	degasses	degassing	degauss	degaussed	degausses	degaussing	degeneracies	degeneracy	degenerate	degenerated	degenerately	degenerateness	degenerates	degenerating	degeneration	degenerations	degenerative	degerm	degermed	degradable	degradation	degradations	degrade	degraded	degradedly	degradedness	degrader	degraders	degrades	degrading	degrease	degreased	degreases	degreasing	degree	degreed	degrees	degum	degummed	degumming	degums	dehorn	dehorned	dehorner	dehorning	dehorns	dehumanization	dehumanize	dehumanized	dehumanizes	dehumanizing	dehumidification	dehumidified	dehumidifier	dehumidifiers	dehumidifies	dehumidify	dehumidifying	dehydrate	dehydrated	dehydrates	dehydrating	dehydration	dehydrator	dehydrators	dehydrogenate	dehydrogenated	dehydrogenates	dehydrogenating	dehydrogenation	dehypnotize	dehypnotized	dehypnotizing	dei	deice	deiced	deicer	deicers	deices	deicidal	deicide	deicides	deicing	deific	deifical	deification	deifications	deified	deifier	deifiers	deifies	deiform	deify	deifying	deign	deigned	deigning	deigns	deionization	deionizations	deionize	deionized	deionizes	deionizing	deism	deisms	deist	deistic	deists	deities	deity	deja	deject	dejected	dejectedly	dejectedness	dejecting	dejection	dejections	dejects	dekagram	dekagrams	dekaliter	dekaliters	dekameter	dekameters	dekares	del	delaware	delawarean	delay	delayed	delayer	delayers	delaying	delays	dele	delead	delectable	delectably	delectation	delectations	deled	delegacies	delegacy	delegalizing	delegant	delegate	delegated	delegatee	delegates	delegati	delegating	delegation	delegations	delegatory	deleing	deles	delete	deleted	deleterious	deleteriously	deleteriousness	deletes	deleting	deletion	deletions	delft	delfts	delhi	deli	deliberate	deliberated	deliberately	deliberateness	deliberates	deliberating	deliberation	deliberations	deliberative	deliberatively	deliberator	delicacies	delicacy	delicate	delicately	delicateness	delicates	delicatessen	delicatessens	delicious	deliciously	deliciousness	delict	delicti	delicto	delight	delighted	delightedly	delightful	delightfully	delightfulness	delighting	delights	delime	deliming	delimit	delimitating	delimitation	delimitations	delimitative	delimited	delimiter	delimiters	delimiting	delimits	delineate	delineated	delineates	delineating	delineation	delineations	delineative	delinquencies	delinquency	delinquent	delinquently	delinquents	deliquesce	deliquesced	deliquescence	deliquescent	deliquesces	deliquescing	deliria	deliriant	delirifacient	delirious	deliriously	deliriousness	delirium	deliriums	delis	delist	deliver	deliverable	deliverables	deliverance	delivered	deliverer	deliverers	deliveries	delivering	delivers	delivery	dell	dells	delly	delouse	deloused	delouses	delousing	delphinia	delphinium	delphiniums	delta	deltaic	deltas	deltic	deltoid	deltoids	delude	deluded	deluder	deluders	deludes	deluding	deludingly	deluge	deluged	deluges	deluging	delusion	delusional	delusionary	delusionist	delusions	delusive	delusively	delusiveness	delusory	deluxe	delve	delved	delver	delvers	delves	delving	demagnetization	demagnetize	demagnetized	demagnetizes	demagnetizing	demagnification	demagog	demagogic	demagogies	demagogs	demagogue	demagoguery	demagogues	demagogy	demand	demandable	demanded	demander	demanders	demanding	demandingly	demands	demarcate	demarcated	demarcates	demarcating	demarcation	demarcations	demarcator	demarcators	demarche	demarches	demarking	demasculinize	demasculinized	demasculinizing	demean	demeaned	demeaning	demeanor	demeanors	demeans	dement	demented	dementedly	dementia	dementias	dementing	dements	demerit	demerited	demeriting	demerits	demesne	demesnes	demeter	demigod	demigods	demijohn	demijohns	demilitarization	demilitarize	demilitarized	demilitarizes	demilitarizing	demimondain	demimondaine	demimondaines	demimonde	demineralization	demineralize	demineralized	demineralizes	demineralizing	demise	demised	demises	demising	demit	demitasse	demitasses	demits	demitted	demiurge	demiurges	demo	demob	demobbed	demobbing	demobilization	demobilizations	demobilize	demobilized	demobilizes	demobilizing	demobs	democracies	democracy	democrat	democratic	democratical	democratically	democratism	democratization	democratize	democratized	democratizes	democratizing	democrats	demode	demodulate	demodulated	demodulates	demodulating	demodulation	demodulations	demographer	demographers	demographic	demographically	demographics	demographies	demography	demoiselle	demoiselles	demolish	demolished	demolisher	demolishes	demolishing	demolition	demolitionist	demolitions	demon	demoness	demonetization	demonetize	demonetized	demonetizes	demonetizing	demoniac	demoniacal	demoniacs	demonian	demonic	demonical	demonise	demonism	demonisms	demonist	demonists	demonize	demonized	demonizes	demonizing	demonologies	demonology	demons	demonstrable	demonstrably	demonstrandum	demonstrate	demonstrated	demonstrates	demonstrating	demonstration	demonstrational	demonstrationist	demonstrationists	demonstrations	demonstrative	demonstratively	demonstrativeness	demonstrator	demonstrators	demoralization	demoralize	demoralized	demoralizer	demoralizers	demoralizes	demoralizing	demos	demote	demoted	demotes	demotic	demotics	demoting	demotion	demotions	demotist	demount	demountable	demounted	demounting	demounts	dempster	demulcent	demulcents	demultiplexes	demur	demure	demurely	demureness	demurer	demurest	demurrable	demurrage	demurrages	demurral	demurrals	demurred	demurrer	demurrers	demurring	demurs	demythologization	demythologizations	demythologize	demythologized	demythologizes	demythologizing	den	denarii	denarius	denationalizing	denaturant	denaturants	denaturation	denature	denatured	denatures	denaturing	denazified	denazifies	denazify	dendrite	dendrites	dendritic	dendroid	dendrologic	dendrological	dendrologist	dendrologists	dendrology	dendrons	dengue	dengues	deniable	deniably	denial	denials	denicotinize	denicotinized	denicotinizes	denicotinizing	denied	denier	deniers	denies	denigrate	denigrated	denigrates	denigrating	denigration	denigrations	denigrator	denigrators	denigratory	denim	denims	denizen	denizens	denmark	denned	denning	dennis	denominate	denominated	denominates	denominating	denomination	denominational	denominationally	denominations	denominator	denominators	denotation	denotations	denotative	denote	denoted	denotes	denoting	denotive	denouement	denouements	denounce	denounced	denouncement	denouncements	denouncer	denouncers	denounces	denouncing	dens	dense	densely	denseness	denser	densest	densified	densifies	densify	densifying	densities	densitometer	densitometers	density	dent	dental	dentally	dentals	dentate	dented	dentifrice	dentifrices	dentin	dentinal	dentine	dentines	denting	dentins	dentist	dentistries	dentistry	dentists	dentition	dents	denture	dentures	denuclearization	denuclearize	denuclearized	denuclearizes	denuclearizing	denudate	denudation	denudations	denude	denuded	denuder	denuders	denudes	denuding	denunciate	denunciation	denunciations	denunciatory	denver	deny	denying	deodar	deodars	deodorant	deodorants	deodorize	deodorized	deodorizer	deodorizers	deodorizes	deodorizing	deoxidation	deoxidization	deoxidize	deoxidized	deoxidizer	deoxidizers	deoxidizes	deoxidizing	deoxygenate	deoxygenated	deoxygenating	deoxygenation	deoxyribonucleic	depart	departed	departing	department	departmental	departmentalism	departmentalization	departmentalize	departmentalized	departmentalizes	departmentalizing	departmentally	departments	departs	departure	departures	depend	dependabilities	dependability	dependable	dependableness	dependably	dependance	dependant	depended	dependence	dependencies	dependency	dependent	dependently	dependents	depending	depends	depersonalize	depersonalized	depersonalizes	depersonalizing	depict	depicted	depicter	depicters	depicting	depiction	depictions	depictor	depictors	depicts	depilate	depilated	depilates	depilating	depilation	depilatories	depilatory	deplane	deplaned	deplanes	deplaning	depletable	deplete	depleted	depletes	depleting	depletion	depletions	deplorable	deplorableness	deplorably	deplore	deplored	deplorer	deplorers	deplores	deploring	deploy	deployed	deploying	deployment	deployments	deploys	depolarization	depolarize	depolarized	depolarizer	depolarizers	depolarizes	depolarizing	depolished	depolishes	depoliticize	depoliticized	depoliticizes	depoliticizing	deponent	deponents	deponing	depopulate	depopulated	depopulates	depopulating	depopulation	depopulations	depopulator	depopulators	deport	deportability	deportable	deportation	deportations	deported	deportee	deportees	deporting	deportment	deports	deposable	deposal	deposals	depose	deposed	deposer	deposers	deposes	deposing	deposit	deposited	depositing	deposition	depositional	depositions	depositor	depositories	depositors	depository	deposits	depot	depots	deprave	depraved	depravedly	depravedness	depraver	depraves	depraving	depravities	depravity	deprecate	deprecated	deprecates	deprecating	deprecatingly	deprecation	deprecations	deprecative	deprecator	deprecators	deprecatory	depreciable	depreciate	depreciated	depreciates	depreciating	depreciatingly	depreciation	depreciations	depreciative	depreciatively	depreciator	depreciators	depreciatory	depredate	depredated	depredating	depredation	depredations	depredator	depredatory	deprehension	depress	depressant	depressants	depressed	depresses	depressibilities	depressibility	depressible	depressing	depressingly	depression	depressional	depressionary	depressions	depressive	depressively	depressives	depressor	depressors	deprival	deprivals	deprivation	deprivations	deprive	deprived	depriver	deprivers	deprives	depriving	deprogram	deprogrammed	deprogrammer	deprogrammers	deprogramming	deprogrammings	deprograms	dept	depth	depths	deputation	deputational	deputations	deputative	depute	deputed	deputes	deputies	deputing	deputize	deputized	deputizes	deputizing	deputy	der	derail	derailed	derailing	derailleur	derailleurs	derailment	derailments	derails	derange	deranged	derangement	derangements	deranges	deranging	derat	derats	deray	derbies	derby	deregulate	deregulated	deregulates	deregulating	deregulation	deregulations	derelict	dereliction	derelictions	derelicts	derestrict	deride	derided	derider	deriders	derides	deriding	deringer	derisible	derision	derisions	derisive	derisively	derisiveness	derisory	derivate	derivation	derivations	derivative	derivatives	derive	derived	deriver	derivers	derives	deriving	derm	derma	dermabrasion	dermal	dermas	dermatitis	dermatitises	dermatological	dermatologies	dermatologist	dermatologists	dermatology	dermic	dermis	dermises	dermopathy	derms	dernier	derogate	derogated	derogates	derogating	derogation	derogations	derogatorily	derogatoriness	derogatory	derrick	derricks	derriere	derrieres	derries	derringer	derringers	derris	derrises	dervish	dervishes	des	desalinate	desalinated	desalinates	desalinating	desalination	desalinization	desalinize	desalinized	desalinizes	desalinizing	desalt	desalted	desalter	desalters	desalting	desalts	desand	descant	descanted	descanting	descants	descartes	descend	descendance	descendant	descendants	descended	descendence	descendent	descending	descends	descent	descents	describable	describe	described	describer	describers	describes	describing	descried	descrier	descriers	descries	description	descriptions	descriptive	descriptively	descriptiveness	descry	descrying	desecrate	desecrated	desecrates	desecrating	desecration	desecrations	desecrator	desegregate	desegregated	desegregates	desegregating	desegregation	deselect	deselected	deselecting	deselects	desensitization	desensitizations	desensitize	desensitized	desensitizer	desensitizers	desensitizes	desensitizing	desert	deserted	deserter	deserters	desertic	deserting	desertion	desertions	deserts	deserve	deserved	deservedly	deserver	deservers	deserves	deserving	deservingly	desex	desexed	desexes	desexing	desexualization	desexualize	desexualized	desexualizing	desiccant	desiccants	desiccate	desiccated	desiccates	desiccating	desiccation	desiccations	desiccative	desiccator	desiccators	desiccatory	desiderata	desideratum	design	designate	designated	designates	designating	designation	designations	designative	designator	designed	designedly	designee	designees	designer	designers	designing	designment	designs	desilvered	desirability	desirable	desirably	desire	desireable	desired	desirer	desirers	desires	desiring	desirous	desist	desisted	desisting	desists	desk	deskman	deskmen	desks	desktop	desolate	desolated	desolately	desolateness	desolates	desolating	desolation	desolations	desoxyribonucleic	despair	despaired	despairing	despairingly	despairs	despatch	despatched	despatcher	despatchers	despatches	despatching	desperado	desperadoes	desperados	desperate	desperately	desperateness	desperation	despicable	despicably	despise	despised	despiser	despisers	despises	despising	despite	despited	despiteful	despitefully	despites	despiting	despoil	despoiled	despoiler	despoilers	despoiling	despoilment	despoilments	despoils	despoliation	despoliations	despond	desponded	despondence	despondencies	despondency	despondent	despondently	desponding	despondingly	desponds	despot	despotic	despotically	despotism	despotisms	despots	dessert	desserts	destain	destaining	destination	destinations	destine	destined	destines	destinies	destining	destiny	destitute	destitutely	destituteness	destitution	destressed	destrier	destriers	destroy	destroyable	destroyed	destroyer	destroyers	destroying	destroyingly	destroys	destruct	destructed	destructibility	destructible	destructing	destruction	destructions	destructive	destructively	destructiveness	destructor	destructors	destructs	desuetude	desuetudes	desugar	desugaring	desulfured	desultory	desynchronizing	detach	detachability	detachable	detachably	detached	detacher	detachers	detaches	detaching	detachment	detachments	detail	detailed	detailer	detailers	detailing	details	detain	detained	detainee	detainees	detainer	detainers	detaining	detainment	detains	detect	detectable	detectably	detected	detecter	detecters	detectible	detecting	detection	detections	detective	detectives	detector	detectors	detects	detent	detente	detentes	detention	detents	deter	deterge	deterged	detergent	detergents	deterger	deterges	deteriorate	deteriorated	deteriorates	deteriorating	deterioration	deteriorations	deteriorative	determent	determents	determinability	determinable	determinableness	determinably	determinacy	determinant	determinants	determinate	determinateness	determination	determinations	determinative	determine	determined	determinedly	determinedness	determines	determining	determinism	determinist	deterministic	determinists	deterred	deterrence	deterrent	deterrents	deterrer	deterrers	deterring	deters	detest	detestable	detestably	detestation	detestations	detested	detester	detesters	detesting	detests	dethrone	dethroned	dethronement	dethronements	dethroner	dethrones	dethroning	detonable	detonate	detonated	detonates	detonating	detonation	detonations	detonator	detonators	detour	detoured	detouring	detournement	detours	detoxicated	detoxicating	detoxication	detoxicator	detoxification	detoxified	detoxifier	detoxifies	detoxify	detoxifying	detract	detracted	detracting	detraction	detractions	detractive	detractor	detractors	detracts	detrain	detrained	detraining	detrains	detriment	detrimental	detrimentally	detrimentalness	detriments	detrital	detritus	detroit	detumescence	detumescent	deuce	deuced	deucedly	deuces	deucing	deus	deuterium	deuteron	deuteronomy	deuterons	deutsche	deutschland	deux	deva	devaluate	devaluated	devaluates	devaluating	devaluation	devaluations	devalue	devalued	devalues	devaluing	devas	devastate	devastated	devastates	devastating	devastatingly	devastation	devastations	devastative	devastator	devastators	devein	deveined	deveining	deveins	develop	develope	developed	developer	developers	developes	developing	development	developmental	developmentally	developments	develops	devest	deviance	deviances	deviancies	deviancy	deviant	deviants	deviate	deviated	deviates	deviating	deviation	deviational	deviations	deviator	deviators	device	devices	devil	deviled	deviling	devilish	devilishly	devilishness	devilkin	devilled	devilling	devilment	devilments	devilries	devilry	devils	deviltries	deviltry	devious	deviously	deviousness	devisable	devisal	devisals	devise	devised	devisee	devisees	deviser	devisers	devises	devising	devisor	devisors	devitalize	devitalized	devitalizes	devitalizing	devoice	devoicing	devoid	devoir	devoirs	devolution	devolutionary	devolutive	devolve	devolved	devolvement	devolvements	devolves	devolving	devon	devonian	devote	devoted	devotedly	devotedness	devotee	devotees	devotes	devoting	devotion	devotional	devotions	devour	devoured	devourer	devourers	devouring	devours	devout	devoutly	devoutness	dew	dewatering	dewax	dewaxed	dewaxes	dewberries	dewberry	dewclaw	dewclaws	dewdrop	dewdrops	dewed	dewfall	dewfalls	dewier	dewiest	dewily	dewiness	dewing	dewlap	dewlapped	dewlaps	dewless	dewool	deworm	dews	dewy	dexes	dexies	dexter	dexterity	dexterous	dexterously	dexterousness	dextral	dextrin	dextrins	dextro	dextrorotary	dextrose	dextroses	dextrous	dezinc	dharma	dharmas	dharmic	dhole	dholes	dhoti	dhotis	dhow	dhows	dhyana	diabetes	diabetic	diabetics	diablery	diabolic	diabolical	diabolically	diabolo	diabolos	diacritic	diacritical	diacritics	diadem	diademed	diadems	diadic	diaeresis	diag	diagnosable	diagnose	diagnoseable	diagnosed	diagnoses	diagnosing	diagnosis	diagnostic	diagnostically	diagnostician	diagnosticians	diagnostics	diagonal	diagonally	diagonals	diagram	diagramed	diagraming	diagrammable	diagrammatic	diagrammatical	diagrammatically	diagrammed	diagrammer	diagramming	diagrams	diagraph	diagraphs	dial	dialect	dialectal	dialectic	dialectical	dialectics	dialects	dialed	dialer	dialers	dialing	dialings	dialist	dialists	diallage	dialled	dialler	diallers	dialling	diallings	diallist	dialog	dialoger	dialogged	dialogic	dialogs	dialogue	dialogued	dialogues	dialoguing	dials	dialyse	dialysed	dialyser	dialyses	dialysis	dialytic	dialyze	dialyzed	dialyzer	dialyzes	diam	diamagnetic	diamagnetism	diameter	diameters	diametric	diametrical	diametrically	diamond	diamondback	diamondbacks	diamonding	diamonds	diana	diane	dianthus	dianthuses	diapason	diapasons	diaper	diapered	diapering	diapers	diaphanous	diaphoretic	diaphoretics	diaphragm	diaphragmatic	diaphragms	diarchy	diaries	diarist	diarists	diarrhea	diarrheal	diarrheas	diarrhoeal	diarrhoeic	diary	dias	diaspora	diasporas	diaspore	diastole	diastoles	diastolic	diastrophic	diastrophism	diathermic	diathermies	diathermy	diatom	diatomic	diatomite	diatoms	diatonic	diatribe	diatribes	diazepam	diazo	dibbed	dibber	dibbers	dibbing	dibble	dibbled	dibbler	dibblers	dibbles	dibbling	dibbuk	dibbukim	dibbuks	dibs	dicasts	dice	diced	dicer	dicers	dices	dicey	dichotic	dichotomies	dichotomous	dichotomously	dichotomy	dichromatic	dichromatism	dicier	diciest	dicing	dick	dickens	dickenses	dickensian	dicker	dickered	dickering	dickers	dickey	dickeys	dickie	dickies	dicks	dicky	dicot	dicots	dicotyledon	dicotyledonous	dicotyledons	dict	dicta	dictaphone	dictaphones	dictate	dictated	dictates	dictating	dictation	dictations	dictator	dictatorial	dictatorially	dictatorialness	dictators	dictatorship	dictatorships	dictatory	diction	dictionaries	dictionary	dictions	dictronics	dictum	dictums	did	didactic	didactically	didacticism	didacts	diddle	diddled	diddler	diddlers	diddles	diddling	didies	dido	didoes	didos	didst	didy	die	dieback	diebacks	died	diehard	diehards	dieing	dieldrin	dielectric	dielectrics	diem	diemaker	diemakers	diereses	dieresis	dies	diesel	diesels	dieses	diestock	diestocks	diet	dietary	dieted	dieter	dieters	dietetic	dietetically	dietetics	diethylamide	dietician	dieticians	dieting	dietitian	dietitians	diets	differ	differed	difference	differences	different	differentia	differentiable	differentiae	differential	differentially	differentials	differentiate	differentiated	differentiates	differentiating	differentiation	differentiations	differently	differing	differs	difficult	difficulties	difficultly	difficulty	diffidence	diffident	diffidently	diffract	diffracted	diffraction	diffractions	diffractive	diffracts	diffuse	diffused	diffusely	diffuseness	diffuser	diffusers	diffuses	diffusing	diffusion	diffusions	diffusive	diffusor	diffusors	dig	digamy	digest	digestant	digested	digester	digesters	digestibility	digestible	digesting	digestion	digestive	digestively	digestiveness	digestor	digestors	digests	digged	digger	diggers	digging	diggings	dight	dighted	dights	digit	digital	digitalis	digitalization	digitalize	digitalized	digitalizing	digitally	digitals	digitate	digitization	digitize	digitized	digitizes	digitizing	digits	diglots	dignified	dignifiedly	dignifies	dignify	dignifying	dignitaries	dignitary	dignities	dignity	digraph	digraphs	digress	digressed	digresses	digressing	digression	digressions	digressive	digressively	digs	dihedral	dihedrals	dihedron	dikdik	dikdiks	dike	diked	diker	dikers	dikes	diking	dilantin	dilapidate	dilapidated	dilapidating	dilapidation	dilapidator	dilatant	dilatants	dilatate	dilatation	dilatations	dilatator	dilate	dilated	dilater	dilaters	dilates	dilating	dilation	dilations	dilative	dilator	dilatorily	dilatoriness	dilators	dilatory	dildo	dildoe	dildoes	dildos	dilemma	dilemmas	dilemmic	dilettante	dilettantes	dilettanti	dilettantish	dilettantism	diligence	diligent	diligently	dill	dillies	dills	dilly	dillydallied	dillydallies	dillydally	dillydallying	diluent	diluents	dilute	diluted	diluter	diluters	dilutes	diluting	dilution	dilutions	dilutive	dilutor	dilutors	diluvial	diluvian	diluvion	diluvium	dim	dime	dimension	dimensional	dimensionality	dimensions	dimer	dimers	dimes	diminish	diminished	diminishes	diminishing	diminishment	diminishments	diminuendo	diminuendos	diminution	diminutions	diminutive	dimities	dimity	dimly	dimmable	dimmed	dimmer	dimmers	dimmest	dimming	dimmock	dimness	dimorph	dimorphic	dimorphism	dimorphisms	dimorphous	dimout	dimouts	dimple	dimpled	dimples	dimpling	dimply	dims	dimwit	dimwits	dimwitted	dimwittedness	din	dinar	dinars	dine	dined	diner	dineros	diners	dines	dinette	dinettes	ding	dingbat	dingbats	dingdong	dingdonged	dingdongs	dinged	dingey	dingeys	dinghies	dinghy	dingier	dingiest	dingily	dinginess	dinging	dingle	dingles	dingo	dingoes	dings	dingus	dinguses	dingy	dining	dinkier	dinkies	dinkiest	dinking	dinkum	dinky	dinned	dinner	dinners	dinnertime	dinnerware	dinning	dinosaur	dinosaurs	dins	dint	dinted	dinting	dints	diocesan	diocese	dioceses	diode	diodes	diogenes	dionysian	dionysus	diopter	diopters	dioptometer	dioptre	diorama	dioramas	dioramic	diorites	dioritic	dioxane	dioxide	dioxides	dioxids	dioxin	dip	diphtheria	diphtherial	diphtherian	diphtheric	diphtheritic	diphthong	diphthongs	diplex	diploid	diploids	diploidy	diploma	diplomacies	diplomacy	diplomas	diplomat	diplomate	diplomates	diplomatic	diplomatically	diplomatique	diplomatist	diplomatists	diplomats	diplopod	dipody	dipole	dipoles	dippable	dipped	dipper	dippers	dippier	dippiest	dipping	dippings	dippy	dips	dipsomania	dipsomaniac	dipsomaniacal	dipsomaniacs	dipstick	dipsticks	dipt	diptera	dipterous	diptyca	diptych	diptychs	dire	direct	directed	directer	directest	directing	direction	directional	directionally	directions	directive	directives	directly	directness	director	directorate	directorates	directories	directors	directorship	directorships	directory	directs	direful	direfully	direly	direness	direr	direst	dirge	dirgeful	dirges	dirigible	dirigibles	dirk	dirked	dirking	dirks	dirndl	dirndls	dirt	dirtied	dirtier	dirties	dirtiest	dirtily	dirtiness	dirts	dirty	dirtying	dis	disabilities	disability	disable	disabled	disablement	disabler	disables	disabling	disabuse	disabused	disabuses	disabusing	disaccharide	disaccharides	disacknowledgements	disadvantage	disadvantaged	disadvantageous	disadvantageously	disadvantageousness	disadvantages	disaffect	disaffected	disaffectedly	disaffecting	disaffection	disaffections	disaffects	disaffiliate	disaffiliated	disaffiliates	disaffiliating	disaffiliation	disaffiliations	disaffirmance	disaffirmation	disaggregation	disagree	disagreeable	disagreeableness	disagreeably	disagreed	disagreeing	disagreement	disagreements	disagrees	disallow	disallowance	disallowances	disallowed	disallowing	disallows	disannul	disannulled	disannulling	disappear	disappearance	disappearances	disappeared	disappearing	disappears	disappoint	disappointed	disappointing	disappointment	disappointments	disappoints	disapprobation	disapprobations	disapproval	disapprovals	disapprove	disapproved	disapproves	disapproving	disapprovingly	disarm	disarmament	disarmed	disarmer	disarmers	disarming	disarmingly	disarms	disarrange	disarranged	disarrangement	disarrangements	disarranges	disarranging	disarray	disarrayed	disarraying	disarrays	disarticulate	disarticulated	disarticulating	disarticulation	disassemble	disassembled	disassembles	disassembling	disassembly	disassimilate	disassimilated	disassimilating	disassimilation	disassimilative	disassociate	disassociated	disassociates	disassociating	disassociation	disaster	disasters	disastrous	disastrously	disavow	disavowal	disavowals	disavowed	disavowing	disavows	disband	disbanded	disbanding	disbandment	disbandments	disbands	disbar	disbarment	disbarments	disbarred	disbarring	disbars	disbelief	disbeliefs	disbelieve	disbelieved	disbeliever	disbelievers	disbelieves	disbelieving	disbosom	disbound	disbowel	disburden	disburdened	disburdening	disburdens	disbursal	disburse	disbursed	disbursement	disbursements	disburser	disburses	disbursing	disc	discants	discard	discarded	discarding	discards	discase	discased	discases	disced	discern	discernable	discerned	discerner	discerners	discernible	discerning	discerningly	discernment	discerns	discharge	dischargeable	discharged	discharger	dischargers	discharges	discharging	discing	disciple	disciples	discipleship	disciplinarian	disciplinarians	disciplinary	discipline	disciplined	discipliner	discipliners	disciplines	discipling	disciplining	disclaim	disclaimant	disclaimed	disclaimer	disclaimers	disclaiming	disclaims	disclamation	disclamatory	disclose	disclosed	discloser	discloses	disclosing	disclosure	disclosures	disco	discoblastic	discographies	discography	discoid	discoids	discolor	discoloration	discolorations	discolored	discoloring	discolors	discombobulate	discombobulated	discombobulates	discombobulating	discombobulation	discomfit	discomfited	discomfiting	discomfits	discomfiture	discomfort	discomforted	discomforting	discomforts	discommode	discommoded	discommodes	discommoding	discompose	discomposed	discomposes	discomposing	discomposure	disconcert	disconcerted	disconcerting	disconcertingly	disconcertment	disconcerts	disconnect	disconnected	disconnecting	disconnection	disconnections	disconnects	disconsolate	disconsolately	disconsolateness	discontent	discontented	discontentedly	discontentedness	discontenting	discontentment	discontentments	discontents	discontinuance	discontinuances	discontinuation	discontinuations	discontinue	discontinued	discontinues	discontinuing	discontinuities	discontinuity	discontinuous	discontinuously	discord	discordance	discordant	discordantly	discording	discords	discos	discotheque	discotheques	discount	discountable	discounted	discountenance	discountenanced	discountenances	discountenancing	discounter	discounters	discounting	discountinuous	discounts	discourage	discouraged	discouragement	discouragements	discourages	discouraging	discouragingly	discourse	discoursed	discourser	discoursers	discourses	discoursing	discourteous	discourteously	discourtesies	discourtesy	discover	discoverable	discovered	discoverer	discoverers	discoveries	discovering	discovers	discovery	discredit	discreditable	discredited	discrediting	discredits	discreet	discreeter	discreetly	discrepancies	discrepancy	discrepant	discrepantly	discrete	discretely	discretion	discretional	discretionary	discriminate	discriminated	discriminately	discriminates	discriminating	discrimination	discriminational	discriminations	discriminator	discriminatory	discrown	discrowned	discs	discursive	discursively	discursiveness	discus	discuses	discuss	discussant	discussants	discussed	discusses	discussing	discussion	discussionis	discussions	disdain	disdained	disdainful	disdainfully	disdaining	disdains	disease	diseased	diseases	diseasing	disembark	disembarkation	disembarkations	disembarked	disembarking	disembarks	disembodied	disembodies	disembodiment	disembodiments	disembody	disembodying	disembowel	disemboweled	disemboweling	disembowelled	disembowelling	disembowelment	disembowelments	disembowels	disemploy	disemployed	disemploying	disemployment	disemploys	disenchant	disenchanted	disenchanting	disenchantingly	disenchantment	disenchantments	disenchants	disencumber	disencumbered	disencumbering	disencumbers	disenfranchise	disenfranchised	disenfranchisement	disenfranchisements	disenfranchises	disenfranchising	disengage	disengaged	disengagement	disengagements	disengages	disengaging	disentailment	disentangle	disentangled	disentanglement	disentanglements	disentangles	disentangling	disenthrall	disenthralled	disenthralling	disenthralls	disentitle	disentitling	disequilibria	disequilibrium	disequilibriums	disestablish	disestablished	disestablishes	disestablishing	disestablishment	disestablismentarian	disestablismentarianism	disesteem	disfavor	disfavored	disfavors	disfigure	disfigured	disfigurement	disfigurements	disfigurer	disfigures	disfiguring	disfiguringly	disfranchise	disfranchised	disfranchisement	disfranchisements	disfranchiser	disfranchisers	disfranchises	disfranchising	disfrocked	disfrocks	disfunction	disgorge	disgorged	disgorges	disgorging	disgrace	disgraced	disgraceful	disgracefully	disgracefulness	disgracer	disgracers	disgraces	disgracing	disgruntle	disgruntled	disgruntles	disgruntling	disguise	disguised	disguisement	disguisements	disguises	disguising	disgust	disgusted	disgustedly	disgusting	disgustingly	disgusts	dish	dishabille	disharmonies	disharmonious	disharmony	dishcloth	dishcloths	dishearten	disheartened	disheartening	dishearteningly	disheartenment	disheartens	dished	dishes	dishevel	disheveled	disheveling	dishevelled	dishevelling	dishevelment	dishevelments	dishevels	dishful	dishfuls	dishier	dishing	dishonest	dishonesties	dishonestly	dishonesty	dishonor	dishonorable	dishonorableness	dishonorably	dishonored	dishonoring	dishonors	dishpan	dishpans	dishrag	dishrags	dishtowel	dishtowels	dishware	dishwares	dishwasher	dishwashers	dishwater	dishy	disillusion	disillusioned	disillusioning	disillusionment	disillusionments	disillusions	disinclination	disinclinations	disincline	disinclined	disinclines	disinclining	disincorporate	disincorporated	disincorporating	disincorporation	disinfect	disinfectant	disinfectants	disinfected	disinfecting	disinfection	disinfections	disinfects	disinfestant	disinfestation	disinformation	disingenuous	disinherit	disinheritance	disinheritances	disinherited	disinheriting	disinherits	disintegrate	disintegrated	disintegrates	disintegrating	disintegration	disintegrations	disintegrative	disintegrator	disintegrators	disinter	disinterest	disinterested	disinterestedly	disinterestedness	disinterred	disinterring	disinters	disintoxication	disjoin	disjoined	disjoining	disjoins	disjoint	disjointed	disjointedly	disjointedness	disjointing	disjoints	disjunct	disjunctive	disjuncts	disk	disked	diskette	diskettes	disking	disks	dislike	disliked	disliker	dislikes	disliking	dislocate	dislocated	dislocates	dislocating	dislocation	dislocations	dislodge	dislodged	dislodges	dislodging	disloyal	disloyally	disloyalties	disloyalty	dismal	dismaler	dismalest	dismally	dismalness	dismals	dismantle	dismantled	dismantlement	dismantles	dismantling	dismast	dismasting	dismay	dismayed	dismaying	dismays	dismember	dismembered	dismembering	dismemberment	dismemberments	dismembers	dismes	dismiss	dismissal	dismissals	dismissed	dismisses	dismissing	dismortgage	dismortgaged	dismortgaging	dismount	dismountable	dismounted	dismounting	dismounts	disney	disneyland	disobedience	disobedient	disobediently	disobey	disobeyed	disobeyer	disobeyers	disobeying	disobeys	disoblige	disobliged	disobliges	disobliging	disorder	disordered	disordering	disorderliness	disorderly	disorders	disorganization	disorganize	disorganized	disorganizer	disorganizers	disorganizes	disorganizing	disorient	disorientate	disorientated	disorientates	disorientating	disorientation	disoriented	disorienting	disorients	disown	disowned	disowning	disownment	disowns	disparage	disparaged	disparagement	disparagements	disparages	disparaging	disparagingly	disparate	disparately	disparities	disparity	dispassion	dispassionate	dispassionately	dispatch	dispatched	dispatcher	dispatchers	dispatches	dispatching	dispel	dispelled	dispelling	dispels	dispending	dispensable	dispensaries	dispensary	dispensation	dispensations	dispensatory	dispense	dispensed	dispenser	dispensers	dispenses	dispensing	dispersal	dispersals	disperse	dispersed	dispersement	disperses	dispersing	dispersion	dispersions	dispirit	dispirited	dispiriting	dispirits	displace	displaced	displacement	displacements	displaces	displacing	displanted	display	displayable	displayed	displaying	displays	displease	displeased	displeases	displeasing	displeasure	displeasures	disport	disported	disporting	disports	disposable	disposal	disposals	dispose	disposed	disposer	disposers	disposes	disposing	disposition	dispositions	dispositive	dispossess	dispossessed	dispossesses	dispossessing	dispossession	dispossessor	dispossessory	dispraise	disproof	disproofs	disproportion	disproportional	disproportionate	disproportionately	disproportionates	disproportions	disprovable	disprove	disproved	disproven	disproves	disproving	disputability	disputable	disputably	disputant	disputants	disputation	disputations	disputatious	dispute	disputed	disputer	disputers	disputes	disputing	disqualification	disqualifications	disqualified	disqualifies	disqualify	disqualifying	disquiet	disquieted	disquieting	disquietingly	disquiets	disquietude	disquietudes	disquisition	disquisitions	disraeli	disregard	disregarded	disregardful	disregarding	disregards	disrepair	disreputability	disreputable	disreputably	disrepute	disrespect	disrespectable	disrespectful	disrespectfully	disrobe	disrobed	disrober	disrobers	disrobes	disrobing	disrupt	disrupted	disrupter	disrupting	disruption	disruptions	disruptive	disruptively	disruptiveness	disrupts	dissatisfaction	dissatisfactions	dissatisfied	dissatisfies	dissatisfy	dissatisfying	dissect	dissected	dissecting	dissection	dissections	dissector	dissectors	dissects	dissemblance	dissemble	dissembled	dissembler	dissemblers	dissembles	dissembling	dissemblingly	disseminate	disseminated	disseminates	disseminating	dissemination	disseminations	dissension	dissensions	dissent	dissented	dissenter	dissenters	dissentient	dissentients	dissenting	dissents	dissepimental	dissert	dissertation	dissertations	disserts	disserve	disservice	disservices	dissever	dissevered	dissevering	dissevers	dissidence	dissident	dissidently	dissidents	dissimilar	dissimilarities	dissimilarity	dissimilate	dissimilitude	dissimulate	dissimulated	dissimulates	dissimulating	dissimulation	dissimulations	dissimulator	dissimulators	dissipate	dissipated	dissipater	dissipaters	dissipates	dissipating	dissipation	dissipations	dissipator	dissipators	dissociate	dissociated	dissociates	dissociating	dissociation	dissociations	dissociative	dissolute	dissolutely	dissoluteness	dissolution	dissolutions	dissolutive	dissolvability	dissolvable	dissolve	dissolved	dissolves	dissolving	dissonance	dissonances	dissonant	dissonantly	dissuadable	dissuade	dissuaded	dissuader	dissuades	dissuading	dissuasion	dissuasions	dissuasive	dissuasively	dissuasiveness	distaff	distaffs	distal	distally	distance	distanced	distances	distancing	distant	distantly	distantness	distaste	distasted	distasteful	distastefully	distastefulness	distastes	distasting	distemper	distend	distended	distending	distends	distensibilities	distensibility	distensible	distension	distensions	distent	distention	distentions	distich	distichs	distill	distillable	distillate	distillates	distillation	distillations	distilled	distiller	distilleries	distillers	distillery	distilling	distills	distils	distinct	distincter	distinction	distinctions	distinctive	distinctively	distinctiveness	distinctly	distinctness	distinguish	distinguishable	distinguishably	distinguished	distinguishes	distinguishing	distort	distortable	distorted	distorter	distorters	distorting	distortion	distortional	distortions	distorts	distr	distract	distracted	distractedly	distractibility	distracting	distractingly	distraction	distractions	distractive	distracts	distrain	distraint	distrait	distraught	distress	distressed	distresses	distressful	distressfully	distressing	distressingly	distributable	distribute	distributed	distributee	distributer	distributes	distributing	distribution	distributions	distributive	distributively	distributor	distributors	distributorship	distributution	district	districted	districts	distrust	distrusted	distrustful	distrustfully	distrustfulness	distrusting	distrusts	disturb	disturbance	disturbances	disturbed	disturber	disturbers	disturbing	disturbingly	disturbs	disunion	disunite	disunited	disuniter	disuniters	disunites	disunities	disuniting	disunity	disuse	disused	disuses	disusing	disvaluing	disyoke	ditch	ditched	ditcher	ditchers	ditches	ditching	ditchless	dites	dither	dithered	dithering	dithers	dithery	ditties	ditto	dittoed	dittoes	dittoing	dittos	ditty	diuretic	diuretically	diuretics	diurnal	diurnally	diurnals	diva	divagate	divagated	divagates	divagating	divagation	divagations	divalent	divan	divans	divas	dive	dived	diver	diverge	diverged	divergence	divergences	divergent	divergently	diverges	diverging	divers	diverse	diversely	diverseness	diversification	diversifications	diversified	diversifies	diversify	diversifying	diversion	diversionary	diversionist	diversions	diversities	diversity	divert	diverted	diverter	diverters	diverticula	diverticulitis	diverticulum	diverting	diverts	dives	divest	divested	divesting	divestitive	divestiture	divestitures	divestment	divests	divesture	dividable	divide	divided	dividend	dividends	divider	dividers	divides	dividing	divination	divinations	divine	divined	divinely	diviner	diviners	divines	divinest	diving	divining	divinise	divinities	divinity	divinize	divisibilities	divisibility	divisible	divisibleness	division	divisional	divisions	divisive	divisively	divisiveness	divisor	divisors	divorce	divorceable	divorced	divorcee	divorcees	divorcement	divorcements	divorcer	divorcers	divorces	divorcing	divot	divots	divulge	divulged	divulgement	divulgence	divulgences	divulger	divulgers	divulges	divulging	divvied	divvies	divvy	divvying	dixie	dixieland	dixit	dizzied	dizzier	dizzies	dizziest	dizzily	dizziness	dizzy	dizzying	djakarta	djellaba	djellabas	djibouti	djin	djinn	djinni	djinns	djinny	djins	dnieper	do	doable	dobber	dobbin	dobbins	doberman	dobermans	dobies	doblas	dobras	dobson	doc	docent	docents	docile	docilely	docilities	docility	docimasia	dock	dockage	dockages	docked	docker	dockers	docket	docketed	docketing	dockets	dockhand	dockhands	docking	docklands	docks	dockside	docksides	dockyard	dockyards	docs	doctor	doctoral	doctorate	doctorates	doctored	doctoring	doctors	doctorship	doctrinaire	doctrinairism	doctrinal	doctrinally	doctrine	doctrines	docudrama	docudramas	document	documentable	documental	documentaries	documentarily	documentary	documentation	documented	documenter	documenters	documenting	documents	dodder	doddered	dodderer	dodderers	doddering	dodders	doddery	dodge	dodged	dodger	dodgers	dodgery	dodges	dodgier	dodging	dodgy	dodo	dodoes	dodoism	dodoisms	dodos	doe	doer	doers	does	doeskin	doeskins	doest	doeth	doff	doffed	doffer	doffers	doffing	doffs	dog	dogbane	dogbanes	dogberries	dogberry	dogcart	dogcarts	dogcatcher	dogcatchers	dogdom	doge	dogear	dogeared	dogears	doges	dogey	dogeys	dogface	dogfaces	dogfight	dogfights	dogfish	dogfishes	dogged	doggedly	doggedness	dogger	doggerel	doggerels	doggers	doggery	doggie	doggier	doggies	dogging	doggish	doggo	doggone	doggoned	doggoner	doggones	doggonest	doggoning	doggrel	doggy	doghouse	doghouses	dogie	dogies	dogleg	doglegged	doglegging	doglegs	dogma	dogmas	dogmata	dogmatic	dogmatical	dogmatically	dogmatism	dogmatist	dogmatists	dognap	dognaped	dognaper	dognapers	dognaping	dognapped	dognapping	dognaps	dogs	dogsbodies	dogsbody	dogsled	dogsleds	dogteeth	dogtooth	dogtrot	dogtrots	dogtrotted	dogwatch	dogwatches	dogwood	dogwoods	dogy	doilies	doily	doing	doings	dojo	dojos	dolce	dolci	doldrums	dole	doled	doleful	dolefuller	dolefully	dolefulness	doles	dolesome	doling	doll	dollar	dollars	dolled	dollied	dollies	dolling	dollish	dollishly	dollop	dollops	dolls	dolly	dollying	dolman	dolmen	dolmens	dolomite	dolomites	dolor	dolores	doloroso	dolorous	dolorously	dolorousness	dolors	dolour	dolours	dolphin	dolphins	dolt	doltish	doltishly	dolts	dom	domain	domains	dome	domed	domes	domestic	domestically	domesticate	domesticated	domesticates	domesticating	domestication	domestications	domesticator	domesticities	domesticity	domestics	domicil	domicile	domiciled	domiciles	domiciliary	domiciliated	domiciling	domicils	dominance	dominant	dominantly	dominants	dominate	dominated	dominates	dominating	domination	dominations	dominator	dominators	domineer	domineered	domineering	domineers	domines	doming	domini	dominica	dominican	dominicans	dominick	dominie	dominion	dominions	dominium	domino	dominoes	dominos	dominus	doms	don	don't	dona	donald	donate	donated	donatee	donates	donating	donatio	donation	donationes	donations	donative	donatives	donator	donators	done	donee	donees	doneness	dong	dongs	donjon	donjons	donkey	donkeys	donna	donnas	donne	donned	donnees	donning	donnish	donnybrook	donnybrooks	donor	donors	donorship	donovan	dons	donut	donuts	doodad	doodads	doodle	doodled	doodler	doodlers	doodles	doodling	doolies	doom	doomed	doomful	dooming	dooms	doomsday	doomsdays	doomster	doomsters	door	doorbell	doorbells	doorjamb	doorjambs	doorkeeper	doorknob	doorknobs	doorless	doorman	doormat	doormats	doormen	doornail	doornails	doorplate	doorplates	doorpost	doorposts	doors	doorsill	doorsills	doorstep	doorsteps	doorstop	doorstops	doorway	doorways	dooryard	dooryards	doozer	doozies	doozy	dopant	dopants	dope	doped	doper	dopers	dopes	dopester	dopey	dopier	dopiest	dopiness	doping	doppler	dopy	dorado	doric	dories	doris	dorm	dormancies	dormancy	dormant	dormer	dormers	dormice	dormitories	dormitory	dormouse	dorms	dormy	dorothy	dorp	dors	dorsa	dorsal	dorsally	dorsals	dorsi	dory	dos	dosage	dosages	dose	dosed	doser	dosers	doses	dosimeter	dosimeters	dosimetric	dosimetries	dosimetry	dosing	doss	dossed	dosser	dossers	dosses	dossier	dossiers	dossing	dost	dostoevsky	dot	dotage	dotages	dotard	dotardly	dotards	dotation	dote	doted	doter	doters	dotes	doth	dotier	dotiest	doting	dotingly	dots	dotted	dottels	dotter	dotters	dottier	dottiest	dottily	dotting	dottle	dottles	dotty	doty	double	doubled	doubleheader	doubleheaders	doubleness	doubler	doublers	doubles	doublet	doublethink	doublets	doublewidth	doubling	doubloon	doubloons	doubly	doubt	doubtable	doubted	doubter	doubters	doubtful	doubtfully	doubtfulness	doubting	doubtingly	doubtless	doubtlessly	doubts	douce	douche	douched	douches	douching	dough	doughboy	doughboys	doughier	doughiest	doughnut	doughnuts	doughs	dought	doughtier	doughtiest	doughtily	doughtiness	doughty	doughy	douglas	dour	dourer	dourest	dourine	dourly	dourness	douse	doused	douser	dousers	douses	dousing	dove	dovecote	dovecotes	dovecots	dover	doves	dovetail	dovetailed	dovetailing	dovetails	dovish	dowager	dowagers	dowdier	dowdies	dowdiest	dowdily	dowdiness	dowdy	dowdyish	dowel	doweled	doweling	dowelled	dowelling	dowels	dower	dowered	doweries	dowering	dowers	dowery	dowing	dowitcher	dowitchers	down	downbeat	downbeats	downcast	downcasts	downcourt	downed	downer	downers	downfall	downfallen	downfalls	downgrade	downgraded	downgrades	downgrading	downhearted	downheartedly	downhill	downhills	downier	downiest	downing	downlink	downlinked	downlinking	downlinks	download	downloadable	downloaded	downloading	downloads	downplay	downplayed	downplays	downpour	downpours	downrange	downright	downs	downshift	downshifted	downshifting	downshifts	downsize	downsized	downsizes	downsizing	downstage	downstairs	downstate	downstream	downstroke	downstrokes	downswing	downswings	downtime	downtimes	downtown	downtowns	downtrend	downtrends	downtrod	downtrodden	downturn	downturns	downward	downwind	downy	dowries	dowry	dows	dowse	dowsed	dowser	dowsers	dowses	dowsing	doxie	doxies	doxologies	doxology	doxy	doyen	doyenne	doyennes	doyens	doylies	doyly	doz	doze	dozed	dozen	dozened	dozening	dozens	dozenth	dozenths	dozer	dozers	dozes	dozier	doziest	dozily	doziness	dozing	dozy	dp	drab	drabbed	drabber	drabbest	drabbets	drabbing	drabble	drably	drabness	drabs	drachm	drachma	drachmae	drachmas	drachms	draconian	draconic	draft	draftable	drafted	draftee	draftees	drafter	drafters	draftier	draftiest	draftily	draftiness	drafting	draftings	drafts	draftsman	draftsmanship	draftsmen	drafty	drag	dragged	dragger	draggers	draggier	draggiest	dragging	draggle	draggled	draggles	draggling	draggy	dragline	draglines	dragnet	dragnets	dragoman	dragomans	dragomen	dragon	dragonet	dragonflies	dragonfly	dragonhead	dragons	dragoon	dragooned	dragooning	dragoons	dragrope	dragropes	drags	dragster	dragsters	drain	drainage	drainages	drained	drainer	drainers	draining	drainpipe	drainpipes	drains	drake	drakes	dram	drama	dramamine	dramas	dramatic	dramatically	dramatics	dramatis	dramatist	dramatists	dramatization	dramatizations	dramatize	dramatized	dramatizes	dramatizing	drams	dramshop	drank	drapable	drape	drapeable	draped	draper	draperies	drapers	drapery	drapes	draping	drastic	drastically	drat	drats	dratted	dratting	draught	draughtier	draughting	draughts	draughty	drave	draw	drawable	drawback	drawbacks	drawbar	drawbars	drawbore	drawbridge	drawbridges	drawdown	drawer	drawers	drawing	drawings	drawl	drawled	drawler	drawlers	drawlier	drawling	drawls	drawly	drawn	draws	drawstring	drawstrings	drawtube	dray	drayage	drayages	drayed	draying	drayman	draymen	drays	dread	dreaded	dreadful	dreadfully	dreadfulness	dreadfuls	dreading	dreadnought	dreadnoughts	dreads	dream	dreamed	dreamer	dreamers	dreamful	dreamier	dreamiest	dreamily	dreaminess	dreaming	dreamland	dreamless	dreamlike	dreams	dreamt	dreamy	drear	drearier	drearies	dreariest	drearily	dreariness	dreary	dreck	drecks	dredge	dredged	dredger	dredgers	dredges	dredging	dredgings	dreg	dreggier	dreggiest	dreggish	dreggy	dregs	dreidel	dreidels	dreidl	dreidls	drek	dreks	drench	drenched	drencher	drenchers	drenches	drenching	dress	dressage	dressages	dressed	dresser	dressers	dresses	dressier	dressiest	dressily	dressiness	dressing	dressings	dressmaker	dressmakers	dressmaking	dressy	drest	drew	drib	dribbed	dribbing	dribble	dribbled	dribbler	dribblers	dribbles	dribblet	dribblets	dribbling	driblet	driblets	dribs	dried	drier	driers	dries	driest	drift	driftage	driftages	drifted	drifter	drifters	driftier	driftiest	drifting	driftpin	driftpins	drifts	driftway	driftwood	drifty	drill	drilled	driller	drillers	drilling	drillings	drillmaster	drillmasters	drills	drily	drink	drinkable	drinker	drinkers	drinking	drinks	drip	dripless	dripped	dripper	drippers	drippier	drippiest	dripping	drippings	drippy	drips	dript	drivable	drive	drivel	driveled	driveler	drivelers	driveling	drivelled	driveller	drivellers	drivelling	drivels	driven	driver	driverless	drivers	drives	driveway	driveways	driving	drizzle	drizzled	drizzles	drizzlier	drizzliest	drizzling	drizzly	drogue	drogues	droit	droits	droll	droller	drolleries	drollery	drollest	drolling	drollness	drolls	drolly	dromedaries	dromedary	drone	droned	droner	droners	drones	drongo	drongos	droning	dronish	drool	drooled	drooling	drools	droop	drooped	droopier	droopiest	droopily	droopiness	drooping	droops	droopy	drop	dropkick	dropkicker	dropkicks	droplet	droplets	dropout	dropouts	dropped	dropper	droppers	dropping	droppings	drops	dropshots	dropsical	dropsied	dropsies	dropsy	dropt	dropworts	droshky	dross	drosses	drossier	drossiest	drossiness	drossy	drought	droughts	droughty	drouthy	drove	droved	drover	drovers	droves	droving	drown	drownd	drownded	drownding	drownds	drowned	drowner	drowners	drowning	drowns	drowse	drowsed	drowses	drowsier	drowsiest	drowsily	drowsiness	drowsing	drowsy	drub	drubbed	drubber	drubbers	drubbing	drubbings	drubs	drudge	drudged	drudger	drudgeries	drudgers	drudgery	drudges	drudging	drug	drugged	drugging	druggist	druggists	drugmaker	drugs	drugstore	drugstores	druid	druidess	druidesses	druidic	druidism	druidisms	druids	drum	drumbeat	drumbeats	drumhead	drumheads	drumlin	drumlins	drummed	drummer	drummers	drumming	drumroll	drumrolls	drums	drumstick	drumsticks	drunk	drunkard	drunkards	drunken	drunkenly	drunkenness	drunker	drunkest	drunkometer	drunks	drupe	drupelet	drupelets	drupes	druthers	dry	dryable	dryad	dryades	dryadic	dryads	dryer	dryers	dryest	drying	drylot	dryly	dryness	drynesses	drypoint	drypoints	dryrot	drys	drywall	drywalls	duad	duads	dual	dualism	dualisms	dualist	dualistic	dualists	dualities	duality	dualize	dualized	dualizes	dualizing	dually	duals	dub	dubbed	dubber	dubbers	dubbin	dubbing	dubbings	dubieties	dubiety	dubio	dubious	dubiously	dubiousness	dublin	dubonnet	dubonnets	dubs	ducal	ducally	ducat	ducats	duce	duces	duchess	duchesses	duchies	duchy	duck	duckbill	duckbills	duckboard	duckboards	ducked	ducker	duckers	duckie	duckier	duckies	duckiest	ducking	duckling	ducklings	duckpin	duckpins	ducks	ducktail	ducktails	duckweed	duckweeds	ducky	duct	ductal	ducted	ductile	ductility	ducting	ductings	ductless	ducts	dud	duddy	dude	dudes	dudgeon	dudgeons	dudish	dudishly	duds	due	duel	dueled	dueler	duelers	dueling	duelist	duelists	duelled	dueller	duellers	duelling	duellist	duellists	duello	duellos	duels	duenna	duennas	dues	duet	duets	duetted	duetting	duettist	duettists	duff	duffel	duffels	duffer	duffers	duffle	duffles	duffs	duffy	dug	dugong	dugongs	dugout	dugouts	dugs	duke	dukedom	dukedoms	dukes	dulcet	dulcetly	dulcets	dulcify	dulcimer	dulcimers	dull	dullard	dullards	dulled	duller	dullest	dulling	dullish	dullness	dulls	dully	dulness	dulse	dulses	duluth	duly	dumb	dumbbell	dumbbells	dumbed	dumber	dumbest	dumbing	dumbly	dumbness	dumbs	dumbstruck	dumbwaiter	dumbwaiters	dumdum	dumdums	dumfound	dumfounded	dumfounding	dumfounds	dummied	dummies	dummkopf	dummkopfs	dummy	dummying	dump	dumpcart	dumpcarts	dumped	dumper	dumpers	dumpier	dumpiest	dumpily	dumpiness	dumping	dumpings	dumpish	dumpling	dumplings	dumps	dumpy	dun	dunce	dunces	dundee	dundee's	dunderhead	dunderheads	dunderpate	dunderpates	dune	dunes	dung	dungaree	dungarees	dunged	dungeon	dungeons	dunghill	dunghills	dungier	dunging	dungs	dungy	dunk	dunked	dunker	dunkers	dunking	dunks	dunnage	dunnages	dunned	dunner	dunning	duns	duo	duodecimal	duodecimals	duodena	duodenal	duodenum	duodenums	duologue	duologues	duos	duotones	dup	dupable	dupe	duped	duper	duperies	dupers	dupery	dupes	duping	duple	duplex	duplexed	duplexer	duplexers	duplexes	duplexing	duplexs	duplicate	duplicated	duplicates	duplicating	duplication	duplications	duplicator	duplicators	duplicities	duplicitous	duplicity	dupped	durabilities	durability	durable	durableness	durables	durably	dural	durance	durances	duration	durational	durations	durative	duratives	duress	duresses	during	durn	durndest	durned	durneder	durnedest	durning	durns	durra	durrs	durst	durum	durums	dusk	dusked	duskier	duskiest	duskily	duskiness	dusking	duskish	dusks	dusky	dust	dustbin	dustbins	dusted	duster	dusters	dustheap	dustheaps	dustier	dustiest	dustily	dustiness	dusting	dustless	dustman	dustmen	dustpan	dustpans	dustrag	dustrags	dusts	dustup	dustups	dusty	dutch	dutchess	dutchman	dutchmen	duteous	duteously	dutiable	duties	dutiful	dutifully	dutifulness	duty	duumvir	dvorak	dwarf	dwarfed	dwarfer	dwarfest	dwarfing	dwarfish	dwarfism	dwarfisms	dwarflike	dwarfs	dwarves	dwell	dwelled	dweller	dwellers	dwelling	dwellings	dwells	dwelt	dwight	dwindle	dwindled	dwindles	dwindling	dx	dyable	dyad	dyadic	dyadics	dyads	dyarchy	dybbuk	dybbukim	dybbuks	dye	dyeable	dyed	dyeing	dyeings	dyer	dyers	dyes	dyestuff	dyestuffs	dyeweed	dyewood	dying	dyings	dyke	dykes	dyking	dynamic	dynamical	dynamically	dynamics	dynamism	dynamisms	dynamist	dynamistic	dynamists	dynamite	dynamited	dynamiter	dynamiters	dynamites	dynamiting	dynamo	dynamometer	dynamometers	dynamos	dynamoscope	dynast	dynastic	dynasties	dynasts	dynasty	dynatrons	dyne	dynes	dynode	dysenteric	dysenteries	dysentery	dysesthesia	dysesthetic	dysfunction	dysfunctional	dysfunctions	dyslectic	dyslexia	dyslexias	dyslexic	dyslexics	dyspepsia	dyspepsy	dyspeptic	dyspeptical	dyspeptically	dyspeptics	dysprosium	dystopia	dystopias	dystrophic	dystrophies	dystrophy	each	eager	eagerer	eagerest	eagerly	eagerness	eagers	eagle	eagles	eaglet	eaglets	ear	earache	earaches	eardrop	eardrops	eardrum	eardrums	eared	earflap	earflaps	earful	earfuls	earing	earings	earl	earlaps	earldom	earldoms	earless	earlier	earliest	earliness	earlobe	earlobes	earlock	earlocks	earls	earlship	earlships	early	earmark	earmarked	earmarking	earmarks	earmuff	earmuffs	earn	earnable	earned	earner	earners	earnest	earnestly	earnestness	earnests	earning	earnings	earns	earphone	earphones	earpiece	earpieces	earplug	earplugs	earring	earrings	ears	earshot	earshots	earsplitting	earth	earthbound	earthed	earthen	earthenware	earthier	earthiest	earthily	earthiness	earthing	earthlier	earthliest	earthliness	earthling	earthlings	earthly	earthman	earthmen	earthmoving	earthquake	earthquakes	earths	earthsets	earthshaking	earthward	earthwork	earthworks	earthworm	earthworms	earthy	earwax	earwaxes	earwig	earwigged	earwigging	earwigs	earworm	earworms	ease	eased	easeful	easel	easels	easement	easements	easer	easers	eases	easier	easies	easiest	easily	easiness	easing	east	eastbound	easter	easterlies	easterly	eastern	easterner	easterners	easters	easting	eastings	eastman	easts	eastward	eastwardly	eastwards	easy	easygoing	eat	eatable	eatables	eaten	eater	eateries	eaters	eatery	eating	eatings	eats	eau	eaux	eave	eaved	eaves	eavesdrop	eavesdropped	eavesdropper	eavesdroppers	eavesdropping	eavesdrops	ebb	ebbed	ebbing	ebbs	ebcdic	ebon	ebonies	ebonite	ebonites	ebonizing	ebons	ebony	ebullience	ebullient	ebulliently	ebullition	ebullitions	eccentric	eccentrically	eccentricities	eccentricity	eccentrics	eccl	ecclesia	ecclesiastes	ecclesiastic	ecclesiastical	ecclesiastically	ecclesiasticalness	ecclesiastics	ecdysial	ecdysis	echelon	echeloned	echeloning	echelons	echidna	echidnae	echidnas	echinodermata	echo	echoed	echoer	echoers	echoes	echoey	echoic	echoing	echoism	echoisms	echolalia	echoless	echolocation	eclair	eclairs	eclampsia	eclamptic	eclat	eclats	eclectic	eclectically	eclecticism	eclectics	eclipse	eclipsed	eclipses	eclipsing	ecliptic	ecliptics	eclogue	eclogues	ecocide	ecol	ecole	ecoles	ecologic	ecological	ecologically	ecologies	ecologist	ecologists	ecology	econ	economic	economical	economically	economics	economies	economist	economists	economize	economized	economizer	economizers	economizes	economizing	economy	ecosystem	ecosystems	ecotype	ecotypes	ecotypic	ecru	ecrus	ecstasies	ecstasy	ecstatic	ecstatically	ecstatics	ectoderm	ectomorph	ectopic	ectoplasm	ectoplasmatic	ectoplasmic	ecuador	ecumenic	ecumenical	ecumenicalism	ecumenically	ecumenicism	ecumenicity	ecumenism	ecus	eczema	eczemas	eczematous	edam	edda	eddied	eddies	eddy	eddying	edelweiss	edelweisses	edema	edemas	edemata	edematous	eden	edentates	edgar	edge	edged	edgeless	edger	edgers	edges	edgeways	edgewise	edgier	edgiest	edgily	edginess	edging	edgings	edgy	edibility	edible	edibleness	edibles	edict	edictally	edicts	edification	edifice	edifices	edified	edifier	edifiers	edifies	edify	edifying	edinburgh	edison	edit	editable	edited	edith	editing	edition	editions	editor	editorial	editorialist	editorialization	editorializations	editorialize	editorialized	editorializer	editorializers	editorializes	editorializing	editorially	editorials	editors	editorship	editorships	editress	editresses	edits	educability	educable	educate	educated	educates	educating	education	educational	educationally	educations	educative	educator	educators	educe	educed	educes	educing	educt	eduction	eductions	eductive	eductor	eductors	educts	edward	edwards	eel	eelgrass	eelgrasses	eelier	eeliest	eels	eelworm	eely	eerie	eerier	eeriest	eerily	eeriness	eery	effable	efface	effaceable	effaced	effacement	effacer	effacers	effaces	effacing	effect	effected	effecter	effecters	effecting	effective	effectively	effectiveness	effector	effectors	effects	effectual	effectuality	effectually	effectuate	effectuated	effectuates	effectuating	effectuation	effeminacy	effeminate	effeminately	effemination	effendi	effendis	efferent	efferents	effervesce	effervesced	effervescence	effervescent	effervescently	effervesces	effervescing	effete	effetely	effeteness	efficacies	efficacious	efficaciously	efficacy	efficiencies	efficiency	efficient	efficiently	effigies	effigy	effloresce	effloresced	efflorescence	efflorescent	effloresces	efflorescing	effluence	effluences	effluent	effluents	effluvia	effluvial	effluvias	effluvium	effluviums	efflux	effluxes	effort	effortless	effortlessly	effortlessness	efforts	effronteries	effrontery	effs	effulge	effulged	effulgence	effulgences	effulgent	effulgently	effulges	effulging	effuse	effused	effuses	effusing	effusion	effusions	effusive	effusively	effusiveness	eft	efts	eftsoon	eftsoons	egad	egads	egalitarian	egalitarianism	egalitarians	egalite	egalites	egestions	egg	eggbeater	eggbeaters	eggcup	eggcups	egged	egger	eggers	egghead	eggheads	egging	eggnog	eggnogs	eggplant	eggplants	eggs	eggshell	eggshells	egis	egises	eglantine	eglantines	ego	egocentric	egocentricities	egocentricity	egocentrism	egoism	egoisms	egoist	egoistic	egoistical	egoistically	egoists	egomania	egomaniac	egomaniacal	egomaniacally	egomanias	egos	egotism	egotisms	egotist	egotistic	egotistical	egotistically	egotists	egregious	egregiously	egregiousness	egress	egressed	egresses	egressing	egret	egrets	egypt	egyptian	egyptians	eh	eider	eiderdown	eiders	eidetic	eidola	eidolon	eidolons	eidos	eiffel	eight	eightball	eightballs	eighteen	eighteens	eighteenth	eighteenths	eighth	eighthly	eighths	eighties	eightieth	eightieths	eights	eighty	eikon	einstein	einsteinium	eire	eisenhower	eisteddfod	eisteddfods	either	ejacula	ejaculate	ejaculated	ejaculates	ejaculating	ejaculation	ejaculations	ejaculator	ejaculators	ejaculatory	ejaculum	eject	ejecta	ejectable	ejected	ejecting	ejection expel	expellable	expelled	expellee	expellees	expeller	expellers	expelling	expels	expend	expendability	expendable	expended	expender	expenders	expending	expenditure	expenditures	expends	expense	expensed	expenses	expensing	expensive	expensively	expensiveness	experience	experienced	experiences	experiencing	experiential	experiment	experimental	experimentalist	experimentally	experimentation	experimented	experimenter	experimenters	experimenting	experiments	expert	experted	experting	expertise	expertly	expertness	experts	expiable	expiate	expiated	expiates	expiating	expiation	expiations	expiator	expiators	expiatory	expiration	expirations	expiratory	expire	expired	expirer	expirers	expires	expiries	expiring	explain	explainable	explained	explainer	explainers	explaining	explains	explanation	explanations	explanatory	explanted	explanting	expletive	expletives	explicable	explicate	explicated	explicates	explicating	explication	explications	explicator	explicators	explicit	explicitly	explicitness	explicits	explode	exploded	exploder	exploders	explodes	exploding	exploit	exploitable	exploitation	exploitations	exploitative	exploited	exploitee	exploiter	exploiters	exploiting	exploits	exploration	explorations	exploratory	explore	explored	explorer	explorers	explores	exploring	explosion	explosions	explosive	explosively	explosiveness	explosives	expo	exponent	exponential	exponentially	exponents	export	exportable	exportation	exportations	exported	exporter	exporters	exporting	exports	expos	exposal	exposals	expose	exposed	exposer	exposers	exposes	exposing	exposit	exposited	expositing	exposition	expositions	expositor	expositors	expository	exposits	expostulate	expostulated	expostulates	expostulating	expostulation	expostulations	exposure	exposures	expound	expounded	expounder	expounders	expounding	expounds	express	expressed	expresses	expressible	expressing	expression	expressionism	expressionist	expressionistic	expressionists	expressionless	expressions	expressive	expressively	expressiveness	expressly	expressway	expressways	expropriate	expropriated	expropriates	expropriating	expropriation	expropriations	expropriator	expulse	expulsed	expulses	expulsing	expulsion	expulsions	expunge	expunged	expunger	expungers	expunges	expunging	expurgate	expurgated	expurgates	expurgating	expurgation	expurgations	expurgator	expurgators	expwy	exquisite	exquisitely	exquisiteness	exsanguine	exscinding	exsert	exserted	exserting	exserts	ext	extant	extemporaneous	extemporaneously	extemporaneousness	extemporary	extempore	extemporize	extemporized	extemporizes	extemporizing	extend	extendability	extendable	extended	extender	extenders	extendibility	extendible	extending	extends	extensible	extension	extensions	extensive	extensively	extensiveness	extensor	extensors	extent	extents	extenuate	extenuated	extenuates	extenuating	extenuation	extenuations	exterior	exteriorize	exteriorized	exteriorizing	exteriorly	exteriors	exterminate	exterminated	exterminates	exterminating	extermination	exterminations	exterminator	exterminators	extern	external	externalism	externalization	externalize	externalized	externalizes	externalizing	externally	externals	externs	exterritoriality	extinct	extincted	extincting	extinction	extinctions	extincts	extinguised	extinguish	extinguishable	extinguished	extinguisher	extinguishers	extinguishes	extinguishing	extinguishment	extirpate	extirpated	extirpates	extirpating	extirpation	extirpations	extirpator	extol	extoll	extolled	extoller	extollers	extolling	extolls	extols	extorsion	extorsive	extort	extorted	extorter	extorters	extorting	extortion	extortionate	extortionately	extortioner	extortioners	extortionist	extortionists	extortions	extorts	extra	extracellular	extract	extracted	extracting	extraction	extractions	extractive	extractor	extractors	extracts	extracurricular	extraditable	extradite	extradited	extradites	extraditing	extradition	extraditions	extrados	extradoses	extragalactic	extrajudicially	extralegal	extramarital	extramural	extraneous	extraneously	extraneousness	extranuclear	extraordinarily	extraordinary	extrapolate	extrapolated	extrapolates	extrapolating	extrapolation	extrapolations	extras	extrasensory	extraterrestrial	extraterrestrially	extraterrestrials	extraterritorial	extraterritoriality	extraterritorials	extrauterine	extravagance	extravagances	extravagant	extravagantly	extravagantness	extravaganza	extravaganzas	extravehicular	extravert	extreme	extremely	extremeness	extremer	extremes	extremest	extremis	extremism	extremist	extremists	extremities	extremity	extricable	extricate	extricated	extricates	extricating	extrication	extrications	extrinsic	extrinsically	extrospection	extroversion	extroversive	extrovert	extroverted	extroverts	extrude	extruded	extruder	extruders	extrudes	extruding	extrusion	extrusions	extrusive	exuberance	exuberant	exuberantly	exudate	exudates	exudation	exudations	exudative	exude	exuded	exudes	exuding	exult	exultant	exultantly	exultation	exulted	exulting	exultingly	exults	exurb	exurban	exurbanite	exurbanites	exurbia	exurbias	exurbs	exxon	eye	eyeable	eyeball	eyeballed	eyeballing	eyeballs	eyebeam	eyebeams	eyebolt	eyebolts	eyebrow	eyebrows	eyecup	eyecups	eyed	eyedness	eyedropper	eyedropperful	eyedroppers	eyeful	eyefuls	eyeglass	eyeglasses	eyehole	eyeholes	eyehook	eyehooks	eyeing	eyelash	eyelashes	eyeless	eyelet	eyelets	eyeletted	eyeletting	eyelid	eyelids	eyeliner	eyeliners	eyepiece	eyepieces	eyepoint	eyepoints	eyer	eyers	eyes	eyeshade	eyeshades	eyeshot	eyeshots	eyesight	eyesights	eyesore	eyesores	eyespots	eyestalk	eyestalks	eyestone	eyestones	eyestrain	eyeteeth	eyetooth	eyewash	eyewashes	eyewaters	eyewink	eyewinks	eyewitness	eyewitnesses	eying	eyrie	eyries	eyrir	ezekiel	fabaceous	fabian	fable	fabled	fabler	fablers	fables	fabling	fabric	fabricate	fabricated	fabricates	fabricating	fabrication	fabrications	fabricator	fabricators	fabrics	fabulist	fabulists	fabulous	fabulously	facade	facades	face	faceable	faced	facedown	faceless	facelessness	facelift	facelifts	facer	facers	faces	facet	faceted	faceting	facetious	facetiously	facetiousness	facets	facetted	facetting	faceup	facia	facial	facially	facials	facias	facie	facies	facile	facilely	facileness	facilitate	facilitated	facilitates	facilitating	facilitation	facilities	facility	facing	facings	facsimile	facsimiles	fact	factful	faction	factional	factionalism	factions	factious	factiously	factiousness	factitious	factitiously	factitiousness	facto	factor	factorable	factorage	factored	factorial	factorials	factories	factoring	factorize	factorized	factors	factorship	factory	factotum	factotums	facts	factual	factualism	factually	facula	faculae	faculties	faculty	fad	fadable	faddier	faddish	faddism	faddisms	faddist	faddists	faddy	fade	fadeaway	fadeaways	faded	fadedly	fadeless	fadeout	fader	faders	fades	fading	fadings	fads	faeces	faerie	faeries	faery	fag	fagged	fagging	faggot	faggoting	faggots	fagot	fagoted	fagoter	fagoting	fagotings	fagots	fags	fahrenheit	faience	faiences	fail	failed	failing	failingly	failings	faille	fails	failsafe	failure	failures	fain	fainer	fainest	faint	fainted	fainter	fainters	faintest	fainthearted	faintheartedly	faintheartedness	fainting	faintish	faintly	faintness	faints	fair	faire	faired	fairer	fairest	fairground	fairgrounds	fairies	fairing	fairings	fairish	fairly	fairness	fairs	fairway	fairways	fairy	fairyism	fairyland	fairylands	fait	faith	faithed	faithful	faithfully	faithfulness	faithfuls	faithing	faithless	faithlessly	faithlessness	faiths	faits	fake	faked	fakeer	fakeers	faker	fakeries	fakers	fakery	fakes	faking	fakir	fakirs	falchion	falchions	falcon	falconer	falconers	falconet	falconets	falconries	falconry	falcons	fall	fallacies	fallacious	fallaciously	fallacy	fallback	fallbacks	fallen	faller	fallers	fallibility	fallible	fallibleness	fallibly	falling	fallings	falloff	falloffs	fallopian	fallout	fallouts	fallow	fallowed	fallowing	fallows	falls	FALSE	falsehood	falsehoods	falsely	falseness	falser	falsest	falsetto	falsettos	falsie	falsies	falsifiability	falsifiable	falsification	falsifications	falsified	falsifier	falsifiers	falsifies	falsify	falsifying	falsities	falsity	faltboat	faltboats	falter	faltered	falterer	falterers	faltering	falteringly	falters	fame	famed	fameless	fames	familarity	familia	familial	familiar	familiarities	familiarity	familiarization	familiarizations	familiarize	familiarized	familiarizes	familiarizing	familiarly	familiarness	familiars	families	family	famine	famines	faming	famish	famished	famishes	famishing	famous	famously	fan	fanatic	fanatical	fanatically	fanaticism	fanaticize	fanaticized	fanatics	fancied	fancier	fanciers	fancies	fanciest	fanciful	fancifully	fancifulness	fancily	fanciness	fancy	fancying	fancywork	fandango	fandangos	fandom	fandoms	fanes	fanfare	fanfares	fanfarons	fanfold	fanfolds	fang	fanged	fangless	fangs	fanjet	fanjets	fanlight	fanlights	fanned	fanner	fanners	fannies	fanning	fanny	fans	fantail	fantailed	fantails	fantasia	fantasias	fantasie	fantasied	fantasies	fantasist	fantasists	fantasize	fantasized	fantasizes	fantasizing	fantasm	fantasms	fantast	fantastic	fantastical	fantastically	fantasticalness	fantasts	fantasy	fantasying	fantod	fantods	fantom	fantoms	fanwise	fanwort	fanworts	fanzine	fanzines	faqir	faqirs	faquir	far	farad	faraday	faradays	farads	faraway	farce	farced	farcer	farcers	farces	farceurs	farcical	farcies	farcing	farcy	fards	fare	fared	farer	farers	fares	farewell	farewelled	farewells	farfels	farfetched	farina	farinaceous	farinas	faring	farm	farmable	farmed	farmer	farmers	farmhand	farmhands	farmhouse	farmhouses	farming	farmings	farmland	farmlands	farms	farmstead	farmsteads	farmyard	farmyards	farness	faro	faroff	faros	farrago	farragoes	farrier	farriers	farriery	farrow	farrowed	farrowing	farrows	farseeing	farsighted	farsightedly	farsightedness	fart	farted	farther	farthermost	farthest	farthing	farthingale	farthingales	farthings	farting	farts	fasces	fascia	fasciae	fascial	fascias	fascicle	fascicled	fascicles	fascinate	fascinated	fascinates	fascinating	fascination	fascinations	fascism	fascisms	fascist	fascistic	fascists	fashed	fashes	fashion	fashionable	fashionableness	fashionably	fashioned	fashioner	fashioners	fashioning	fashions	fast	fastback	fastbacks	fastball	fastballs	fasted	fasten	fastened	fastener	fasteners	fastening	fastenings	fastens	faster	fastest	fastidious	fastidiously	fastidiousness	fasting	fastings	fastness	fastnesses	fasts	fat	fatal	fatale	fatales	fatalism	fatalisms	fatalist	fatalistic	fatalistically	fatalists	fatalities	fatality	fatally	fatalness	fatback	fatbacks	fate	fated	fateful	fatefully	fatefulness	fates	fathead	fatheaded	fatheads	father	fathered	fatherhood	fathering	fatherland	fatherlands	fatherless	fatherliness	fatherly	fathers	fathom	fathomable	fathomed	fathoming	fathomless	fathoms	fatigability	fatigable	fatiguabilities	fatiguability	fatiguable	fatigue	fatigued	fatigueless	fatigues	fatiguing	fating	fatless	fatly	fatness	fatnesses	fats	fatso	fatsoes	fatsos	fatstocks	fatted	fatten	fattened	fattener	fatteners	fattening	fattens	fatter	fattest	fattier	fatties	fattiest	fattily	fatting	fattish	fatty	fatuities	fatuity	fatuous	fatuously	fatuousness	fatuus	faubourg	faubourgs	fauces	faucet	faucets	faugh	faulkner	fault	faulted	faultfinder	faultfinders	faultfinding	faultier	faultiest	faultily	faultiness	faulting	faultless	faultlessly	faultlessness	faults	faulty	faun	fauna	faunae	faunal	faunally	faunas	fauns	faust	faustian	faut	fauve	fauves	fauvism	fauvisms	fauvist	fauvists	faux	favor	favorable	favorableness	favorably	favored	favorer	favorers	favoring	favorite	favorites	favoritism	favors	favour	favoured	favourer	favourers	favouring	favours	fawn	fawned	fawner	fawners	fawnier	fawning	fawningly	fawns	fawny	fax	faxed	faxes	faxing	fay	faying	fays	faze	fazed	fazes	fazing	fbi	fealties	fealty	fear	feared	fearer	fearers	fearful	fearfuller	fearfully	fearfulness	fearing	fearless	fearlessly	fearlessness	fears	fearsome	fearsomely	feasance	feasances	feasant	fease	feasibility	feasible	feasibleness	feasibly	feast	feasted	feaster	feasters	feastful	feasting	feasts	feat	feater	featest	feather	featherbed	featherbedded	featherbedding	featherbrain	featherbrained	feathered	featheredge	featheredges	featherier	featheriness	feathering	featherless	feathers	featherweight	featherweights	feathery	featlier	featliest	featly	feats	feature	featured	featureless	features	featuring	feaze	febrifuge	febrifuges	febrile	february	fecal	feces	feckless	fecklessly	feculent	fecund	fecundate	fecundated	fecundates	fecundating	fecundation	fecundations	fecundity	fed	fedayeen	federacy	federal	federalism	federalist	federalists	federalization	federalizations	federalize	federalized	federalizes	federalizing	federally	federals	federate	federated	federates	federating	federation	federational	federations	federative	federatively	federator	fedora	fedoras	feds	fee	feeble	feebleminded	feeblemindedly	feeblemindedness	feebleness	feebler	feeblest	feeblish	feebly	feed	feedable	feedback	feedbacks	feedbag	feedbags	feedbox	feedboxes	feeder	feeders	feeding	feedings	feedlot	feedlots	feeds	feedstuff	feedstuffs	feeing	feel	feeler	feelers	feeless	feeling	feelingly	feelings	feels	fees	feet	feetless	feign	feigned	feignedly	feigner	feigners	feigning	feigns	feinschmecker	feinschmeckers	feint	feinted	feinting	feints	feist	feistier	feistiest	feists	feisty	feldspar	feldspars	felicitate	felicitated	felicitates	felicitating	felicitation	felicitations	felicitator	felicitators	felicities	felicitous	felicitously	felicity	feline	felinely	felines	felinities	felinity	felix	fell	fella	fellable	fellah	fellaheen	fellahin	fellahs	fellas	fellate	fellated	fellatee	fellating	fellatio	fellation	fellations	fellatios	fellator	fellatrice	fellatrices	fellatrix	fellatrixes	felled	feller	fellers	fellest	fellies	felling	fellness	felloe	felloes	fellow	fellowed	fellowing	fellowly	fellowman	fellowmen	fellows	fellowship	fellowships	fells	felly	felon	felonies	felonious	feloniously	feloniousness	felonries	felons	felony	felt	felted	felting	feltings	felts	feltwork	feluccas	fem	female	femaleness	females	feminacies	feminacy	feminine	femininely	feminines	femininity	feminise	feminism	feminisms	feminist	feministic	feminists	feminities	feminity	feminization	feminize	feminized	feminizes	feminizing	femme	femmes	femora	femoral	femur	femurs	fen	fence	fenced	fenceless	fencepost	fencer	fencers	fences	fencible	fencibles	fencing	fencings	fend	fended	fender	fendered	fenders	fending	fends	fenestrae	fenestration	fennec	fennecs	fennel	fennels	fenny	fens	fenugreek	feoff	feoffment	feral	ferlies	fermata	fermatas	ferment	fermentable	fermentation	fermentations	fermentative	fermented	fermenting	ferments	fermi	fermis	fermium	fern	ferneries	fernery	ferniest	fernless	ferns	ferny	ferocious	ferociously	ferociousness	ferocities	ferocity	ferret	ferreted	ferreter	ferreters	ferreting	ferrets	ferrety	ferriage	ferric	ferried	ferries	ferris	ferrite	ferrites	ferromagnetic	ferromagnetism	ferrotype	ferrotypes	ferrous	ferrule	ferruled	ferrules	ferruling	ferrum	ferrums	ferry	ferryage	ferryboat	ferryboats	ferrying	ferryman	ferrymen	fertile	fertilely	fertileness	fertilities	fertility	fertilizable	fertilization	fertilizations	fertilize	fertilized	fertilizer	fertilizers	fertilizes	fertilizing	ferule	feruled	ferules	feruling	fervencies	fervency	fervent	fervently	fervid	fervidly	fervidness	fervor	fervors	fervour	fervours	fescue	fescues	fess	fesse	fessed	fesses	fessing	festal	fester	festered	festering	festers	festival	festivals	festive	festively	festiveness	festivities	festivity	festoon	festooned	festooning	festoons	feta	fetal	fetas	fetch	fetched	fetcher	fetchers	fetches	fetching	fetchingly	fete	feted	fetes	feticide	feticides	fetid	fetidly	fetidness	feting	fetish	fetishes	fetishism	fetishist	fetishistic	fetishists	fetlock	fetlocks	fetor	fetors	fetted	fetter	fettered	fetterer	fetterers	fettering	fetters	fettle	fettles	fettlings	fettucini	fetus	fetuses	feud	feudal	feudalism	feudalist	feudalistic	feudalists	feudally	feudary	feudatories	feudatory	feuded	feuding	feudist	feudists	feuds	fever	fevered	feverfew	feverfews	fevering	feverish	feverishly	feverishness	feverous	fevers	few	fewer	fewest	fewness	fewnesses	fey	feyer	feyest	feyness	feynesses	fez	fezes	fezzed	fezzes	fiance	fiancee	fiancees	fiances	fiasco	fiascoes	fiascos	fiat	fiats	fib	fibbed	fibber	fibbers	fibbing	fiber	fiberboard	fibered	fiberfill	fiberglass	fiberize	fiberized	fiberizes	fiberizing	fibers	fibre	fibres	fibril	fibrillate	fibrillation	fibrillations	fibrils	fibrin	fibrinogen	fibrinous	fibrins	fibroid	fibroids	fibroin	fibroma	fibrose	fibrosis	fibrous	fibs	fibula	fibulae	fibular	fibulas	fica	fiche	fiches	fichu	fichus	fickle	fickleness	fickler	ficklest	fiction	fictional	fictionalize	fictionalized	fictionalizes	fictionalizing	fictionally	fictions	fictitious	fictitiously	fictive	fiddle	fiddled	fiddler	fiddlers	fiddles	fiddlestick	fiddlesticks	fiddling	fide	fidel	fideles	fidelis	fidelities	fidelity	fides	fidget	fidgeted	fidgeter	fidgeters	fidgetiness	fidgeting	fidgets	fidgety	fido	fidos	fids	fiducial	fiducially	fiduciaries	fiduciarily	fiduciary	fie	fief	fiefdom	fiefdoms	fiefs	field	fielded	fielder	fielders	fielding	fieldleft	fieldmice	fieldpiece	fieldpieces	fields	fieldstone	fieldwork	fiend	fiendish	fiendishly	fiendishness	fiends	fierce	fiercely	fierceness	fiercer	fiercest	fierier	fieriest	fierily	fieriness	fiery	fiesta	fiestas	fife	fifed	fifer	fifers	fifes	fifing	fifteen	fifteens	fifteenth	fifteenths	fifth	fifthly	fifths	fifties	fiftieth	fiftieths	fifty	fig	figeater	figeaters	figged	figging	fight	fighter	fighters	fighting	fightings	fights	figment	figments	figs	figurant	figurants	figurate	figuration	figurations	figurative	figuratively	figurativeness	figure	figured	figurehead	figureheads	figurer	figurers	figures	figurine	figurines	figuring	figurings	figwort	figworts	fiji	filagree	filagreed	filagrees	filament	filamentary	filamentous	filaments	filar	filaree	filarees	filbert	filberts	filch	filched	filcher	filchers	filches	filching	file	fileable	filed	filename	filenames	filer	filers	files	filespec	filet	fileted	fileting	filets	filial	filially	filiated	filiates	filibuster	filibustered	filibusterer	filibusterers	filibustering	filibusters	filicide	filicides	filigree	filigreed	filigreeing	filigrees	filii	filing	filings	filipino	filipinos	filisters	filius	fill	fillable	fille	filled	filler	fillers	filles	fillet	filleted	filleting	fillets	fillies	filling	fillings	fillip	filliped	filliping	fillips	fillmore	fills	filly	film	filmcards	filmdom	filmdoms	filmed	filmgoer	filmgoers	filmic	filmier	filmiest	filmily	filminess	filming	filmland	filmlands	filmographies	filmography	films	filmsets	filmstrip	filmstrips	filmy	filter	filterability	filterable	filtered	filterer	filterers	filtering	filters	filth	filthier	filthiest	filthily	filthiness	filths	filthy	filtrable	filtrate	filtrated	filtrates	filtrating	filtration	fin	finable	finagle	finagled	finagler	finaglers	finagles	finagling	final	finale	finales	finalis	finalism	finalisms	finalist	finalists	finalities	finality	finalization	finalizations	finalize	finalized	finalizes	finalizing	finally	finals	finance	financed	finances	financial	financially	financier	financiers	financing	finbacks	finch	finches	find	findable	finder	finders	finding	findings	finds	fine	fineable	fined	finely	fineness	finer	fineries	finery	fines	finespun	finesse	finessed	finesses	finessing	finest	finfishes	finfoots	finger	fingerboard	fingerboards	fingered	fingerer	fingerers	fingering	fingerings	fingerling	fingerlings	fingernail	fingernails	fingerprint	fingerprinted	fingerprinting	fingerprints	fingers	fingertip	fingertips	finial	finialed	finials	finical	finickier	finickiest	finicky	fining	finings	finis	finises	finish	finished	finisher	finishers	finishes	finishing	finite	finitely	finiteness	finites	finitude	finitudes	fink	finked	finking	finks	finland	finless	finmark	finn	finnan	finned	finnickier	finnicky	finnier	finniest	finning	finnmark	finnmarks	finns	finny	finochio	finochios	fins	fiord	fir	fire	firearm	firearms	fireball	fireballs	firebase	firebases	firebird	firebirds	fireboat	fireboats	firebomb	firebombed	firebombing	firebombs	firebox	fireboxes	firebrand	firebrands	firebreak	firebreaks	firebrick	firebricks	firebug	firebugs	fireclays	firecracker	firecrackers	fired	firedamp	firedamps	firedog	firedogs	firefanged	fireflies	firefly	firehalls	firehouse	firehouses	fireless	firelight	fireman	firemen	firepan	firepans	fireplace	fireplaces	fireplug	fireplugs	firepower	fireproof	firer	firers	fires	fireside	firesides	firetrap	firetraps	firewater	fireweed	fireweeds	firewood	firewoods	firework	fireworks	fireworm	fireworms	firing	firings	firkin	firkins	firm	firma	firmament	firmed	firmer	firmers	firmest	firming	firmly	firmness	firms	firry	firs	first	firstborn	firsthand	firstling	firstlings	firstly	firsts	firth	firths	fiscal	fiscally	fiscals	fish	fishable	fishbone	fishbowl	fishbowls	fished	fisher	fisheries	fisherman	fishermen	fishers	fishery	fishes	fisheye	fisheyes	fishhook	fishhooks	fishier	fishiest	fishily	fishiness	fishing	fishings	fishless	fishline	fishlines	fishmeal	fishnet	fishnets	fishpole	fishpoles	fishpond	fishponds	fishskin	fishtail	fishtailed	fishtailing	fishtails	fishways	fishwife	fishwives	fishy	fissile	fissility	fission	fissionable	fissioned	fissioning	fissions	fissure	fissured	fissures	fissuring	fist	fisted	fistful	fistfuls	fistic	fisticuff	fisticuffs	fisting	fists	fistula	fistulae	fistular	fistulas	fistulous	fit	fitchews	fitful	fitfully	fitfulness	fitly	fitments	fitness	fitnesses	fits	fittable	fitted	fitter	fitters	fittest	fitting	fittingly	fittingness	fittings	five	fivefold	fivepins	fiver	fivers	fives	fix	fixable	fixate	fixated	fixates	fixating	fixation	fixations	fixative	fixatives	fixe	fixed	fixedly	fixedness	fixer	fixers	fixes	fixing	fixings	fixities	fixity	fixture	fixtures	fixup	fixups	fixures	fizgig	fizgigs	fizz	fizzed	fizzer	fizzers	fizzes	fizzier	fizziest	fizzing	fizzle	fizzled	fizzles	fizzling	fizzy	fjord	fjords	flab	flabbergast	flabbergasted	flabbergasting	flabbergasts	flabbier	flabbiest	flabbily	flabbiness	flabby	flabs	flaccid	flaccidities	flaccidity	flack	flacks	flacon	flacons	flag	flagella	flagellant	flagellants	flagellate	flagellated	flagellates	flagellating	flagellation	flagellations	flagellator	flagellators	flagellum	flagellums	flageolet	flageolets	flagged	flagger	flaggers	flaggier	flaggiest	flagging	flaggings	flaggy	flagitious	flagless	flagman	flagmen	flagon	flagons	flagpole	flagpoles	flagrance	flagrancy	flagrant	flagrante	flagrantly	flags	flagship	flagships	flagstaff	flagstaffs	flagstone	flagstones	flail	flailed	flailing	flails	flair	flairs	flak	flake	flaked	flaker	flakers	flakes	flakier	flakiest	flakily	flakiness	flaking	flaky	flambe	flambeau	flambeaus	flambeaux	flambee	flambeed	flambeing	flambes	flamboyance	flamboyancy	flamboyant	flamboyantly	flame	flamed	flamenco	flamencos	flameout	flameouts	flameproof	flamer	flamers	flames	flamethrower	flamethrowers	flamier	flamines	flaming	flamingly	flamingo	flamingoes	flamingos	flammability	flammable	flammably	flammed	flamming	flams	flamy	flan	flanders	flange	flanged	flanger	flangers	flanges	flanging	flank	flanked	flanker	flankers	flanking	flanks	flannel	flanneled	flannelet	flanneling	flannelled	flannelly	flannels	flans	flap	flapjack	flapjacks	flapless	flappable	flapped	flapper	flappers	flappier	flappiest	flapping	flappy	flaps	flare	flared	flares	flaring	flash	flashback	flashbacks	flashbulb	flashbulbs	flashcube	flashcubes	flashed	flasher	flashers	flashes	flashflood	flashforward	flashforwards	flashgun	flashguns	flashier	flashiest	flashily	flashiness	flashing	flashings	flashlamp	flashlamps	flashlight	flashlights	flashtube	flashtubes	flashy	flask	flasks	flat	flatbed	flatbeds	flatboat	flatboats	flatcar	flatcars	flatfeet	flatfish	flatfishes	flatfoot	flatfooted	flatfoots	flathead	flatheads	flatiron	flatirons	flatland	flatlands	flatly	flatness	flats	flatted	flatten	flattened	flattener	flatteners	flattening	flattens	flatter	flattered	flatterer	flatterers	flatteries	flattering	flatteringly	flatters	flattery	flattest	flatting	flattish	flattop	flattops	flatulence	flatulences	flatulencies	flatulency	flatulent	flatulently	flatus	flatuses	flatware	flatwares	flatways	flatwise	flatwork	flatworks	flatworm	flatworms	flaunt	flaunted	flaunter	flaunters	flauntier	flauntiest	flaunting	flauntingly	flaunts	flaunty	flautist	flautists	flavedos	flavonoid	flavonol	flavonols	flavor	flavored	flavorer	flavorers	flavorful	flavorfully	flavoring	flavorings	flavorless	flavors	flavorsome	flavory	flavour	flavoured	flavouring	flavours	flavoury	flaw	flawed	flawier	flawing	flawless	flawlessly	flawlessness	flaws	flawy	flax	flaxen	flaxes	flaxier	flaxseed	flaxseeds	flaxy	flay	flayed	flayer	flayers	flaying	flays	flea	fleabag	fleabags	fleabane	fleabanes	fleabite	fleabites	fleabitten	fleas	fleawort	fleche	fleches	fleck	flecked	flecking	flecks	flecky	fled	fledge	fledged	fledges	fledgier	fledging	fledgling	fledglings	fledgy	flee	fleece	fleeced	fleecer	fleecers	fleeces	fleecier	fleeciest	fleecily	fleeciness	fleecing	fleecy	fleeing	fleer	fleered	fleering	fleers	flees	fleet	fleeted	fleeter	fleetest	fleeting	fleetingly	fleetingness	fleetly	fleetness	fleets	fleming	flemings	flemish	flemished	flemishes	flenched	flenches	flenching	flense	flensed	flenser	flensers	flenses	flensing	flesh	fleshed	flesher	fleshers	fleshes	fleshier	fleshiest	fleshiness	fleshing	fleshings	fleshlier	fleshliest	fleshly	fleshpot	fleshpots	fleshy	fletch	fletched	fletcher	fletchers	fletches	fletching	fleury	flew	flews	flex	flexed	flexes	flexibility	flexible	flexibly	flexile	flexing	flexion	flexions	flexitime	flexor	flexors	flexure	flexures	fleyed	flibbertigibbet	flibbertigibbets	flick	flicked	flicker	flickered	flickering	flickers	flickery	flicking	flicks	flied	flier	fliers	flies	fliest	flight	flighted	flightier	flightiest	flightiness	flighting	flightless	flights	flighty	flimflam	flimflammer	flimflams	flimsier	flimsies	flimsiest	flimsily	flimsiness	flimsy	flinch	flinched	flincher	flinchers	flinches	flinching	flinchingly	flinder	flinders	fling	flinger	flingers	flinging	flings	flint	flinted	flintier	flintiest	flintily	flinting	flintlike	flintlock	flintlocks	flints	flinty	flip	flippancies	flippancy	flippant	flippantly	flipped	flipper	flippers	flippest	flipping	flips	flirt	flirtation	flirtations	flirtatious	flirtatiously	flirtatiousness	flirted	flirter	flirters	flirtier	flirtiest	flirting	flirtingly	flirts	flirty	flit	flitch	flitched	flitches	flitching	flite	flites	flits	flitted	flitter	flittered	flittering	flitters	flitting	flivver	flivvers	float	floatability	floatable	floatage	floatages	floatation	floated	floater	floaters	floatier	floatiest	floating	floats	floaty	floccular	floccules	flocculus	flock	flocked	flockier	flockiest	flocking	flockings	flocks	flocky	floe	floes	flog	flogged	flogger	floggers	flogging	floggings	flogs	flood	flooded	flooder	flooders	floodgate	floodgates	flooding	floodlight	floodlighted	floodlighting	floodlights	floodlit	floodplain	floods	floodwater	floodway	floodways	flooey	floor	floorages	floorboard	floorboards	floored	floorer	floorers	flooring	floorings	floors	floorshift	floorshifts	floorshow	floorthrough	floorwalker	floorwalkers	floosies	floozie	floozies	floozy	flop	flophouse	flophouses	flopover	flopovers	flopped	flopper	floppers	floppier	floppies	floppiest	floppily	flopping	floppy	flops	flora	florae	floral	florally	floras	florence	florences	florentine	florentines	florescence	florescent	floret	florets	florid	florida	floridan	floridans	floridian	floridians	floridly	florin	florins	florist	florists	floss	flossed	flosses	flossie	flossier	flossies	flossiest	flossing	flossy	flotation	flotations	flotilla	flotillas	flotsam	flotsams	flounce	flounced	flounces	flouncier	flounciest	flouncing	flouncy	flounder	floundered	floundering	flounderingly	flounders	flour	floured	flouring	flourish	flourished	flourishes	flourishing	flourishingly	flours	floury	flout	flouted	flouter	flouters	flouting	flouts	flow	flowage	flowages	flowchart	flowcharted	flowcharting	flowcharts	flowed	flower	flowered	flowerer	flowerers	floweret	flowerets	flowerier	floweriest	floweriness	flowering	flowerless	flowerpot	flowerpots	flowers	flowery	flowing	flowingly	flowmeter	flown	flows	flu	flub	flubbed	flubbing	flubdubs	flubs	fluctuate	fluctuated	fluctuates	fluctuating	fluctuation	fluctuational	fluctuations	flue	flued	fluencies	fluency	fluent	fluently	flues	fluff	fluffed	fluffier	fluffiest	fluffily	fluffiness	fluffing	fluffs	fluffy	fluid	fluidal	fluidic	fluidics	fluidities	fluidity	fluidize	fluidized	fluidizes	fluidizing	fluidly	fluidness	fluidrams	fluids	fluke	fluked	flukes	flukey	flukier	flukiest	fluking	fluky	flume	flumed	flumes	fluming	flummeries	flummery	flummox	flummoxed	flummoxes	flummoxing	flump	flumped	flung	flunk	flunked	flunker	flunkers	flunkey	flunkeys	flunkies	flunking	flunks	flunky	fluor	fluorenes	fluoresce	fluoresced	fluorescence	fluorescent	fluoresces	fluorescing	fluoridate	fluoridated	fluoridates	fluoridating	fluoridation	fluoridations	fluoride	fluorides	fluorinate	fluorinated	fluorinates	fluorinating	fluorination	fluorinations	fluorine	fluorines	fluorite	fluorites	fluorocarbon	fluorocarbons	fluorophosphate	fluoroscope	fluoroscopes	fluoroscopic	fluoroscopically	fluoroscopies	fluoroscopist	fluoroscopists	fluoroscopy	fluorosis	fluors	flurried	flurries	flurry	flurrying	flus	flush	flushable	flushed	flusher	flushers	flushes	flushest	flushing	flushness	fluster	flustered	flustering	flusters	flute	fluted	fluter	fluters	flutes	flutier	flutiest	fluting	flutings	flutist	flutists	flutter	fluttered	flutterer	flutterers	fluttering	flutters	fluttery	fluty	flux	fluxed	fluxes	fluxing	fluxions	fly	flyable	flyaway	flyaways	flyblown	flyblows	flyby	flybys	flycatcher	flycatchers	flyer	flyers	flying	flyings	flyleaf	flyleaves	flyman	flymen	flyover	flyovers	flypaper	flypapers	flyspeck	flyspecked	flyspecks	flytrap	flytraps	flyway	flyways	flyweight	flyweights	flywheel	flywheels	foal	foaled	foaling	foals	foam	foamed	foamer	foamers	foamier	foamiest	foamily	foaminess	foaming	foamless	foams	foamy	fob	fobbed	fobbing	fobs	focal	focalised	focalises	focalize	focalized	focalizes	focalizing	focally	foci	focus	focused	focuser	focusers	focuses	focusing	focussed	focusses	focussing	fodder	foddered	foddering	fodders	foe	foehn	foehns	foeman	foemen	foes	foetal	foeti	foetid	foetor	foetors	foetus	foetuses	fog	fogbound	fogey	fogeys	foggages	fogged	fogger	foggers	foggier	foggiest	foggily	fogginess	fogging	foggy	foghorn	foghorns	fogie	fogies	fogless	fogs	fogy	fogyish	fogyism	fogyisms	foible	foibles	foil	foilable	foiled	foiling	foils	foilsman	foilsmen	foins	foist	foisted	foisting	foists	fold	foldable	foldage	foldaway	foldboat	foldboats	folded	folder	folderol	folderols	folders	folding	foldout	foldouts	folds	folia	foliage	foliaged	foliages	foliar	foliate	foliated	foliates	foliating	foliation	folic	folio	folioed	folioing	folios	folk	folkish	folklore	folklores	folkloric	folklorist	folklorists	folkmoots	folkmotes	folks	folksier	folksiest	folksily	folksongs	folksy	folktale	folktales	folkway	folkways	follicle	follicles	follicular	follies	follow	followed	follower	followers	followeth	following	followings	follows	followup	folly	foment	fomentation	fomentations	fomented	fomenter	fomenters	fomenting	foments	fond	fondant	fondants	fonded	fonder	fondest	fonding	fondle	fondled	fondler	fondlers	fondles	fondling	fondlings	fondly	fondness	fonds	fondu	fondue	fondues	font	fontal	fontanelle	fontanels	fontina	fontinas	fonts	food	foodless	foods	foodservices	foodstuff	foodstuffs	foofaraw	foofaraws	fool	fooled	fooleries	foolery	foolfish	foolhardier	foolhardiest	foolhardily	foolhardiness	foolhardy	fooling	foolish	foolisher	foolishest	foolishly	foolishness	foolproof	fools	foolscap	foolscaps	foot	footage	footages	football	footballs	footbath	footbaths	footboard	footboards	footboy	 farted	farther	farthermost	farthest	farthing	farthingale	farthingales	farthings	farting	farts	fasces	fascia	fasciae	fascial	fascias	fascicle	fascicled	fascicles	fascinate	fascinated	fascinates	fascinating	fascination	fascinations	fascism	fascisms	fascist	fascistic	fascists	fashed	fashes	fashion	fashionable	fashionableness	fashionably	fashioned	fashioner	fashioners	fashioning	fashions	fast	fastback	fastbacks	fastball	fastballs	fasted	fasten	fastened	fastener	fasteners	fastening	fastenings	fastens	faster	fastest	fastidious	fastidiously	fastidiousness	fasting	fastings	fastness	fastnesses	fasts	fat	fatal	fatale	fatales	fatalism	fatalisms	fatalist	fatalistic	fatalistically	fatalists	fatalities	fatality	fatally	fatalness	fatback	fatbacks	fate	fated	fateful	fatefully	fatefulness	fates	fathead	fatheaded	fatheads	father	fathered	fatherhood	fathering	fatherland	fatherlands	fatherless	fatherliness	fatherly	fathers	fathom	fathomable	fathomed	fathoming	fathomless	fathoms	fatigability	fatigable	fatiguabilities	fatiguability	fatiguable	fatigue	fatigued	fatigueless	fatigues	fatiguing	fating	fatless	fatly	fatness	fatnesses	fats	fatso	fatsoes	fatsos	fatstocks	fatted	fatten	fattened	fattener	fatteners	fattening	fattens	fatter	fattest	fattier	fatties	fattiest	fattily	fatting	fattish	fatty	fatuities	fatuity	fatuous	fatuously	fatuousness	fatuus	faubourg	faubourgs	fauces	faucet	faucets	faugh	faulkner	fault	faulted	faultfinder	faultfinders	faultfinding	faultier	faultiest	faultily	faultiness	faulting	faultless	faultlessly	faultlessness	faults	faulty	faun	fauna	faunae	faunal	faunally	faunas	fauns	faust	faustian	faut	fauve	fauves	fauvism	fauvisms	fauvist	fauvists	faux	favor	favorable	favorableness	favorably	favored	favorer	favorers	favoring	favorite	favorites	favoritism	favors	favour	favoured	favourer	favourers	favouring	favours	fawn	fawned	fawner	fawners	fawnier	fawning	fawningly	fawns	fawny	fax	faxed	faxes	faxing	fay	faying	fays	faze	fazed	fazes	fazing	fbi	fealties	fealty	fear	feared	fearer	fearers	fearful	fearfuller	fearfully	fearfulness	fearing	fearless	fearlessly	fearlessness	fears	fearsome	fearsomely	feasance	feasances	feasant	fease	feasibility	feasible	feasibleness	feasibly	feast	feasted	feaster	feasters	feastful	feasting	feasts	feat	feater	featest	feather	featherbed	featherbedded	featherbedding	featherbrain	featherbrained	feathered	featheredge	featheredges	featherier	featheriness	feathering	featherless	feathers	featherweight	featherweights	feathery	featlier	featliest	featly	feats	feature	featured	featureless	features	featuring	feaze	febrifuge	febrifuges	febrile	february	fecal	feces	feckless	fecklessly	feculent	fecund	fecundate	fecundated	fecundates	fecundating	fecundation	fecundations	fecundity	fed	fedayeen	federacy	federal	federalism	federalist	federalists	federalization	federalizations	federalize	federalized	federalizes	federalizing	federally	federals	federate	federated	federates	federating	federation	federational	federations	federative	federatively	federator	fedora	fedoras	feds	fee	feeble	feebleminded	feeblemindedly	feeblemindedness	feebleness	feebler	feeblest	feeblish	feebly	feed	feedable	feedback	feedbacks	feedbag	feedbags	feedbox	feedboxes	feeder	feeders	feeding	feedings	feedlot	feedlots	feeds	feedstuff	feedstuffs	feeing	feel	feeler	feelers	feeless	feeling	feelingly	feelings	feels	fees	feet	feetless	feign	feigned	feignedly	feigner	feigners	feigning	feigns	feinschmecker	feinschmeckers	feint	feinted	feinting	feints	feist	feistier	feistiest	feists	feisty	feldspar	feldspars	felicitate	felicitated	felicitates	felicitating	felicitation	felicitations	felicitator	felicitators	felicities	felicitous	felicitously	felicity	feline	felinely	felines	felinities	felinity	felix	fell	fella	fellable	fellah	fellaheen	fellahin	fellahs	fellas	fellate	fellated	fellatee	fellating	fellatio	fellation	fellations	fellatios	fellator	fellatrice	fellatrices	fellatrix	fellatrixes	felled	feller	fellers	fellest	fellies	felling	fellness	felloe	felloes	fellow	fellowed	fellowing	fellowly	fellowman	fellowmen	fellows	fellowship	fellowships	fells	felly	felon	felonies	felonious	feloniously	feloniousness	felonries	felons	felony	felt	felted	felting	feltings	felts	feltwork	feluccas	fem	female	femaleness	females	feminacies	feminacy	feminine	femininely	feminines	femininity	feminise	feminism	feminisms	feminist	feministic	feminists	feminities	feminity	feminization	feminize	feminized	feminizes	feminizing	femme	femmes	femora	femoral	femur	femurs	fen	fence	fenced	fenceless	fencepost	fencer	fencers	fences	fencible	fencibles	fencing	fencings	fend	fended	fender	fendered	fenders	fending	fends	fenestrae	fenestration	fennec	fennecs	fennel	fennels	fenny	fens	fenugreek	feoff	feoffment	feral	ferlies	fermata	fermatas	ferment	fermentable	fermentation	fermentations	fermentative	fermented	fermenting	ferments	fermi	fermis	fermium	fern	ferneries	fernery	ferniest	fernless	ferns	ferny	ferocious	ferociously	ferociousness	ferocities	ferocity	ferret	ferreted	ferreter	ferreters	ferreting	ferrets	ferrety	ferriage	ferric	ferried	ferries	ferris	ferrite	ferrites	ferromagnetic	ferromagnetism	ferrotype	ferrotypes	ferrous	ferrule	ferruled	ferrules	ferruling	ferrum	ferrums	ferry	ferryage	ferryboat	ferryboats	ferrying	ferryman	ferrymen	fertile	fertilely	fertileness	fertilities	fertility	fertilizable	fertilization	fertilizations	fertilize	fertilized	fertilizer	fertilizers	fertilizes	fertilizing	ferule	feruled	ferules	feruling	fervencies	fervency	fervent	fervently	fervid	fervidly	fervidness	fervor	fervors	fervour	fervours	fescue	fescues	fess	fesse	fessed	fesses	fessing	festal	fester	festered	festering	festers	festival	festivals	festive	festively	festiveness	festivities	festivity	festoon	festooned	festooning	festoons	feta	fetal	fetas	fetch	fetched	fetcher	fetchers	fetches	fetching	fetchingly	fete	feted	fetes	feticide	feticides	fetid	fetidly	fetidness	feting	fetish	fetishes	fetishism	fetishist	fetishistic	fetishists	fetlock	fetlocks	fetor	fetors	fetted	fetter	fettered	fetterer	fetterers	fettering	fetters	fettle	fettles	fettlings	fettucini	fetus	fetuses	feud	feudal	feudalism	feudalist	feudalistic	feudalists	feudally	feudary	feudatories	feudatory	feuded	feuding	feudist	feudists	feuds	fever	fevered	feverfew	feverfews	fevering	feverish	feverishly	feverishness	feverous	fevers	few	fewer	fewest	fewness	fewnesses	fey	feyer	feyest	feyness	feynesses	fez	fezes	fezzed	fezzes	fiance	fiancee	fiancees	fiances	fiasco	fiascoes	fiascos	fiat	fiats	fib	fibbed	fibber	fibbers	fibbing	fiber	fiberboard	fibered	fiberfill	fiberglass	fiberize	fiberized	fiberizes	fiberizing	fibers	fibre	fibres	fibril	fibrillate	fibrillation	fibrillations	fibrils	fibrin	fibrinogen	fibrinous	fibrins	fibroid	fibroids	fibroin	fibroma	fibrose	fibrosis	fibrous	fibs	fibula	fibulae	fibular	fibulas	fica	fiche	fiches	fichu	fichus	fickle	fickleness	fickler	ficklest	fiction	fictional	fictionalize	fictionalized	fictionalizes	fictionalizing	fictionally	fictions	fictitious	fictitiously	fictive	fiddle	fiddled	fiddler	fiddlers	fiddles	fiddlestick	fiddlesticks	fiddling	fide	fidel	fideles	fidelis	fidelities	fidelity	fides	fidget	fidgeted	fidgeter	fidgeters	fidgetiness	fidgeting	fidgets	fidgety	fido	fidos	fids	fiducial	fiducially	fiduciaries	fiduciarily	fiduciary	fie	fief	fiefdom	fiefdoms	fiefs	field	fielded	fielder	fielders	fielding	fieldleft	fieldmice	fieldpiece	fieldpieces	fields	fieldstone	fieldwork	fiend	fiendish	fiendishly	fiendishness	fiends	fierce	fiercely	fierceness	fiercer	fiercest	fierier	fieriest	fierily	fieriness	fiery	fiesta	fiestas	fife	fifed	fifer	fifers	fifes	fifing	fifteen	fifteens	fifteenth	fifteenths	fifth	fifthly	fifths	fifties	fiftieth	fiftieths	fifty	fig	figeater	figeaters	figged	figging	fight	fighter	fighters	fighting	fightings	fights	figment	figments	figs	figurant	figurants	figurate	figuration	figurations	figurative	figuratively	figurativeness	figure	figured	figurehead	figureheads	figurer	figurers	figures	figurine	figurines	figuring	figurings	figwort	figworts	fiji	filagree	filagreed	filagrees	filament	filamentary	filamentous	filaments	filar	filaree	filarees	filbert	filberts	filch	filched	filcher	filchers	filches	filching	file	fileable	filed	filename	filenames	filer	filers	files	filespec	filet	fileted	fileting	filets	filial	filially	filiated	filiates	filibuster	filibustered	filibusterer	filibusterers	filibustering	filibusters	filicide	filicides	filigree	filigreed	filigreeing	filigrees	filii	filing	filings	filipino	filipinos	filisters	filius	fill	fillable	fille	filled	filler	fillers	filles	fillet	filleted	filleting	fillets	fillies	filling	fillings	fillip	filliped	filliping	fillips	fillmore	fills	filly	film	filmcards	filmdom	filmdoms	filmed	filmgoer	filmgoers	filmic	filmier	filmiest	filmily	filminess	filming	filmland	filmlands	filmographies	filmography	films	filmsets	filmstrip	filmstrips	filmy	filter	filterability	filterable	filtered	filterer	filterers	filtering	filters	filth	filthier	filthiest	filthily	filthiness	filths	filthy	filtrable	filtrate	filtrated	filtrates	filtrating	filtration	fin	finable	finagle	finagled	finagler	finaglers	finagles	finagling	final	finale	finales	finalis	finalism	finalisms	finalist	finalists	finalities	finality	finalization	finalizations	finalize	finalized	finalizes	finalizing	finally	finals	finance	financed	finances	financial	financially	financier	financiers	financing	finbacks	finch	finches	find	findable	finder	finders	finding	findings	finds	fine	fineable	fined	finely	fineness	finer	fineries	finery	fines	finespun	finesse	finessed	finesses	finessing	finest	finfishes	finfoots	finger	fingerboard	fingerboards	fingered	fingerer	fingerers	fingering	fingerings	fingerling	fingerlings	fingernail	fingernails	fingerprint	fingerprinted	fingerprinting	fingerprints	fingers	fingertip	fingertips	finial	finialed	finials	finical	finickier	finickiest	finicky	fining	finings	finis	finises	finish	finished	finisher	finishers	finishes	finishing	finite	finitely	finiteness	finites	finitude	finitudes	fink	finked	finking	finks	finland	finless	finmark	finn	finnan	finned	finnickier	finnicky	finnier	finniest	finning	finnmark	finnmarks	finns	finny	finochio	finochios	fins	fiord	fir	fire	firearm	firearms	fireball	fireballs	firebase	firebases	firebird	firebirds	fireboat	fireboats	firebomb	firebombed	firebombing	firebombs	firebox	fireboxes	firebrand	firebrands	firebreak	firebreaks	firebrick	firebricks	firebug	firebugs	fireclays	firecracker	firecrackers	fired	firedamp	firedamps	firedog	firedogs	firefanged	fireflies	firefly	firehalls	firehouse	firehouses	fireless	firelight	fireman	firemen	firepan	firepans	fireplace	fireplaces	fireplug	fireplugs	firepower	fireproof	firer	firers	fires	fireside	firesides	firetrap	firetraps	firewater	fireweed	fireweeds	firewood	firewoods	firework	fireworks	fireworm	fireworms	firing	firings	firkin	firkins	firm	firma	firmament	firmed	firmer	firmers	firmest	firming	firmly	firmness	firms	firry	firs	first	firstborn	firsthand	firstling	firstlings	firstly	firsts	firth	firths	fiscal	fiscally	fiscals	fish	fishable	fishbone	fishbowl	fishbowls	fished	fisher	fisheries	fisherman	fishermen	fishers	fishery	fishes	fisheye	fisheyes	fishhook	fishhooks	fishier	fishiest	fishily	fishiness	fishing	fishings	fishless	fishline	fishlines	fishmeal	fishnet	fishnets	fishpole	fishpoles	fishpond	fishponds	fishskin	fishtail	fishtailed	fishtailing	fishtails	fishways	fishwife	fishwives	fishy	fissile	fissility	fission	fissionable	fissioned	fissioning	fissions	fissure	fissured	fissures	fissuring	fist	fisted	fistful	fistfuls	fistic	fisticuff	fisticuffs	fisting	fists	fistula	fistulae	fistular	fistulas	fistulous	fit	fitchews	fitful	fitfully	fitfulness	fitly	fitments	fitness	fitnesses	fits	fittable	fitted	fitter	fitters	fittest	fitting	fittingly	fittingness	fittings	five	fivefold	fivepins	fiver	fivers	fives	fix	fixable	fixate	fixated	fixates	fixating	fixation	fixations	fixative	fixatives	fixe	fixed	fixedly	fixedness	fixer	fixers	fixes	fixing	fixings	fixities	fixity	fixture	fixtures	fixup	fixups	fixures	fizgig	fizgigs	fizz	fizzed	fizzer	fizzers	fizzes	fizzier	fizziest	fizzing	fizzle	fizzled	fizzles	fizzling	fizzy	fjord	fjords	flab	flabbergast	flabbergasted	flabbergasting	flabbergasts	flabbier	flabbiest	flabbily	flabbiness	flabby	flabs	flaccid	flaccidities	flaccidity	flack	flacks	flacon	flacons	flag	flagella	flagellant	flagellants	flagellate	flagellated	flagellates	flagellating	flagellation	flagellations	flagellator	flagellators	flagellum	flagellums	flageolet	flageolets	flagged	flagger	flaggers	flaggier	flaggiest	flagging	flaggings	flaggy	flagitious	flagless	flagman	flagmen	flagon	flagons	flagpole	flagpoles	flagrance	flagrancy	flagrant	flagrante	flagrantly	flags	flagship	flagships	flagstaff	flagstaffs	flagstone	flagstones	flail	flailed	flailing	flails	flair	flairs	flak	flake	flaked	flaker	flakers	flakes	flakier	flakiest	flakily	flakiness	flaking	flaky	flambe	flambeau	flambeaus	flambeaux	flambee	flambeed	flambeing	flambes	flamboyance	flamboyancy	flamboyant	flamboyantly	flame	flamed	flamenco	flamencos	flameout	flameouts	flameproof	flamer	flamers	flames	flamethrower	flamethrowers	flamier	flamines	flaming	flamingly	flamingo	flamingoes	flamingos	flammability	flammable	flammably	flammed	flamming	flams	flamy	flan	flanders	flange	flanged	flanger	flangers	flanges	flanging	flank	flanked	flanker	flankers	flanking	flanks	flannel	flanneled	flannelet	flanneling	flannelled	flannelly	flannels	flans	flap	flapjack	flapjacks	flapless	flappable	flapped	flapper	flappers	flappier	flappiest	flapping	flappy	flaps	flare	flared	flares	flaring	flash	flashback	flashbacks	flashbulb	flashbulbs	flashcube	flashcubes	flashed	flasher	flashers	flashes	flashflood	flashforward	flashforwards	flashgun	flashguns	flashier	flashiest	flashily	flashiness	flashing	flashings	flashlamp	flashlamps	flashlight	flashlights	flashtube	flashtubes	flashy	flask	flasks	flat	flatbed	flatbeds	flatboat	flatboats	flatcar	flatcars	flatfeet	flatfish	flatfishes	flatfoot	flatfooted	flatfoots	flathead	flatheads	flatiron	flatirons	flatland	flatlands	flatly	flatness	flats	flatted	flatten	flattened	flattener	flatteners	flattening	flattens	flatter	flattered	flatterer	flatterers	flatteries	flattering	flatteringly	flatters	flattery	flattest	flatting	flattish	flattop	flattops	flatulence	flatulences	flatulencies	flatulency	flatulent	flatulently	flatus	flatuses	flatware	flatwares	flatways	flatwise	flatwork	flatworks	flatworm	flatworms	flaunt	flaunted	flaunter	flaunters	flauntier	flauntiest	flaunting	flauntingly	flaunts	flaunty	flautist	flautists	flavedos	flavonoid	flavonol	flavonols	flavor	flavored	flavorer	flavorers	flavorful	flavorfully	flavoring	flavorings	flavorless	flavors	flavorsome	flavory	flavour	flavoured	flavouring	flavours	flavoury	flaw	flawed	flawier	flawing	flawless	flawlessly	flawlessness	flaws	flawy	flax	flaxen	flaxes	flaxier	flaxseed	flaxseeds	flaxy	flay	flayed	flayer	flayers	flaying	flays	flea	fleabag	fleabags	fleabane	fleabanes	fleabite	fleabites	fleabitten	fleas	fleawort	fleche	fleches	fleck	flecked	flecking	flecks	flecky	fled	fledge	fledged	fledges	fledgier	fledging	fledgling	fledglings	fledgy	flee	fleece	fleeced	fleecer	fleecers	fleeces	fleecier	fleeciest	fleecily	fleeciness	fleecing	fleecy	fleeing	fleer	fleered	fleering	fleers	flees	fleet	fleeted	fleeter	fleetest	fleeting	fleetingly	fleetingness	fleetly	fleetness	fleets	fleming	flemings	flemish	flemished	flemishes	flenched	flenches	flenching	flense	flensed	flenser	flensers	flenses	flensing	flesh	fleshed	flesher	fleshers	fleshes	fleshier	fleshiest	fleshiness	fleshing	fleshings	fleshlier	fleshliest	fleshly	fleshpot	fleshpots	fleshy	fletch	fletched	fletcher	fletchers	fletches	fletching	fleury	flew	flews	flex	flexed	flexes	flexibility	flexible	flexibly	flexile	flexing	flexion	flexions	flexitime	flexor	flexors	flexure	flexures	fleyed	flibbertigibbet	flibbertigibbets	flick	flicked	flicker	flickered	flickering	flickers	flickery	flicking	flicks	flied	flier	fliers	flies	fliest	flight	flighted	flightier	flightiest	flightiness	flighting	flightless	flights	flighty	flimflam	flimflammer	flimflams	flimsier	flimsies	flimsiest	flimsily	flimsiness	flimsy	flinch	flinched	flincher	flinchers	flinches	flinching	flinchingly	flinder	flinders	fling	flinger	flingers	flinging	flings	flint	flinted	flintier	flintiest	flintily	flinting	flintlike	flintlock	flintlocks	flints	flinty	flip	flippancies	flippancy	flippant	flippantly	flipped	flipper	flippers	flippest	flipping	flips	flirt	flirtation	flirtations	flirtatious	flirtatiously	flirtatiousness	flirted	flirter	flirters	flirtier	flirtiest	flirting	flirtingly	flirts	flirty	flit	flitch	flitched	flitches	flitching	flite	flites	flits	flitted	flitter	flittered	flittering	flitters	flitting	flivver	flivvers	float	floatability	floatable	floatage	floatages	floatation	floated	floater	floaters	floatier	floatiest	floating	floats	floaty	floccular	floccules	flocculus	flock	flocked	flockier	flockiest	flocking	flockings	flocks	flocky	floe	floes	flog	flogged	flogger	floggers	flogging	floggings	flogs	flood	flooded	flooder	flooders	floodgate	floodgates	flooding	floodlight	floodlighted	floodlighting	floodlights	floodlit	floodplain	floods	floodwater	floodway	floodways	flooey	floor	floorages	floorboard	floorboards	floored	floorer	floorers	flooring	floorings	floors	floorshift	floorshifts	floorshow	floorthrough	floorwalker	floorwalkers	floosies	floozie	floozies	floozy	flop	flophouse	flophouses	flopover	flopovers	flopped	flopper	floppers	floppier	floppies	floppiest	floppily	flopping	floppy	flops	flora	florae	floral	florally	floras	florence	florences	florentine	florentines	florescence	florescent	floret	florets	florid	florida	floridan	floridans	floridian	floridians	floridly	florin	florins	florist	florists	floss	flossed	flosses	flossie	flossier	flossies	flossiest	flossing	flossy	flotation	flotations	flotilla	flotillas	flotsam	flotsams	flounce	flounced	flounces	flouncier	flounciest	flouncing	flouncy	flounder	floundered	floundering	flounderingly	flounders	flour	floured	flouring	flourish	flourished	flourishes	flourishing	flourishingly	flours	floury	flout	flouted	flouter	flouters	flouting	flouts	flow	flowage	flowages	flowchart	flowcharted	flowcharting	flowcharts	flowed	flower	flowered	flowerer	flowerers	floweret	flowerets	flowerier	floweriest	floweriness	flowering	flowerless	flowerpot	flowerpots	flowers	flowery	flowing	flowingly	flowmeter	flown	flows	flu	flub	flubbed	flubbing	flubdubs	flubs	fluctuate	fluctuated	fluctuates	fluctuating	fluctuation	fluctuational	fluctuations	flue	flued	fluencies	fluency	fluent	fluently	flues	fluff	fluffed	fluffier	fluffiest	fluffily	fluffiness	fluffing	fluffs	fluffy	fluid	fluidal	fluidic	fluidics	fluidities	fluidity	fluidize	fluidized	fluidizes	fluidizing	fluidly	fluidness	fluidrams	fluids	fluke	fluked	flukes	flukey	flukier	flukiest	fluking	fluky	flume	flumed	flumes	fluming	flummeries	flummery	flummox	flummoxed	flummoxes	flummoxing	flump	flumped	flung	flunk	flunked	flunker	flunkers	flunkey	flunkeys	flunkies	flunking	flunks	flunky	fluor	fluorenes	fluoresce	fluoresced	fluorescence	fluorescent	fluoresces	fluorescing	fluoridate	fluoridated	fluoridates	fluoridating	fluoridation	fluoridations	fluoride	fluorides	fluorinate	fluorinated	fluorinates	fluorinating	fluorination	fluorinations	fluorine	fluorines	fluorite	fluorites	fluorocarbon	fluorocarbons	fluorophosphate	fluoroscope	fluoroscopes	fluoroscopic	fluoroscopically	fluoroscopies	fluoroscopist	fluoroscopists	fluoroscopy	fluorosis	fluors	flurried	flurries	flurry	flurrying	flus	flush	flushable	flushed	flusher	flushers	flushes	flushest	flushing	flushness	fluster	flustered	flustering	flusters	flute	fluted	fluter	fluters	flutes	flutier	flutiest	fluting	flutings	flutist	flutists	flutter	fluttered	flutterer	flutterers	fluttering	flutters	fluttery	fluty	flux	fluxed	fluxes	fluxing	fluxions	fly	flyable	flyaway	flyaways	flyblown	flyblows	flyby	flybys	flycatcher	flycatchers	flyer	flyers	flying	flyings	flyleaf	flyleaves	flyman	flymen	flyover	flyovers	flypaper	flypapers	flyspeck	flyspecked	flyspecks	flytrap	flytraps	flyway	flyways	flyweight	flyweights	flywheel	flywheels	foal	foaled	foaling	foals	foam	foamed	foamer	foamers	foamier	foamiest	foamily	foaminess	foaming	foamless	foams	foamy	fob	fobbed	fobbing	fobs	focal	focalised	focalises	focalize	focalized	focalizes	focalizing	focally	foci	focus	focused	focuser	focusers	focuses	focusing	focussed	focusses	focussing	fodder	foddered	foddering	fodders	foe	foehn	foehns	foeman	foemen	foes	foetal	foeti	foetid	foetor	foetors	foetus	foetuses	fog	fogbound	fogey	fogeys	foggages	fogged	fogger	foggers	foggier	foggiest	foggily	fogginess	fogging	foggy	foghorn	foghorns	fogie	fogies	fogless	fogs	fogy	fogyish	fogyism	fogyisms	foible	foibles	foil	foilable	foiled	foiling	foils	foilsman	foilsmen	foins	foist	foisted	foisting	foists	fold	foldable	foldage	foldaway	foldboat	foldboats	folded	folder	folderol	folderols	folders	folding	foldout	foldouts	folds	folia	foliage	foliaged	foliages	foliar	foliate	foliated	foliates	foliating	foliation	folic	folio	folioed	folioing	folios	folk	folkish	folklore	folklores	folkloric	folklorist	folklorists	folkmoots	folkmotes	folks	folksier	folksiest	folksily	folksongs	folksy	folktale	folktales	folkway	folkways	follicle	follicles	follicular	follies	follow	followed	follower	followers	followeth	following	followings	follows	followup	folly	foment	fomentation	fomentations	fomented	fomenter	fomenters	fomenting	foments	fond	fondant	fondants	fonded	fonder	fondest	fonding	fondle	fondled	fondler	fondlers	fondles	fondling	fondlings	fondly	fondness	fonds	fondu	fondue	fondues	font	fontal	fontanelle	fontanels	fontina	fontinas	fonts	food	foodless	foods	foodservices	foodstuff	foodstuffs	foofaraw	foofaraws	fool	fooled	fooleries	foolery	foolfish	foolhardier	foolhardiest	foolhardily	foolhardiness	foolhardy	fooling	foolish	foolisher	foolishest	foolishly	foolishness	foolproof	fools	foolscap	foolscaps	foot	footage	footages	football	footballs	footbath	footbaths	footboard	footboards	footboy	footbridge	footbridges	footed	footer	footers	footfall	footfalls	footgear	footgears	foothill	foothills	foothold	footholds	footier	footing	footings	footless	footlessness	footlight	footlights	footlocker	footlockers	footloose	footman	footmark	footmarks	footmen	footnote	footnoted	footnotes	footnoting	footpace	footpaces	footpad	footpads	footpath	footpaths	footprint	footprints	footrace	footraces	footrest	footrests	footrope	footropes	foots	footsie	footsies	footslog	footslogs	footsore	footsoreness	footstep	footsteps	footstool	footstools	footway	footways	footwear	footwears	footwork	footworks	footworn	footy	foozle	foozlers	foozling	fop	fopped	fopperies	foppery	fopping	foppish	fops	for	fora	forage	foraged	forager	foragers	forages	foraging	foramen	foramina	forasmuch	foray	forayed	forayer	forayers	foraying	forays	forbad	forbade	forbear	forbearance	forbearer	forbearers	forbearing	forbearingly	forbears	forbid	forbidals	forbiddance	forbidden	forbidder	forbidding	forbiddingly	forbids	forbode	forboded	forbodes	forboding	forbore	forborne	force	forced	forcedly	forceful	forcefully	forcefulness	forceless	forceps	forcer	forcers	forces	forcible	forcibleness	forcibly	forcing	ford	fordable	forded	fordid	fording	fordless	fords	fore	forearm	forearmed	forearming	forearms	forebay	forebear	forebearing	forebears	forebode	foreboded	foreboder	forebodes	forebodies	foreboding	forebodings	forebrain	foreby	forebye	forecast	forecasted	forecaster	forecasters	forecasting	forecastle	forecastles	forecasts	foreclose	foreclosed	forecloses	foreclosing	foreclosure	foreclosures	foreconscious	forecourt	foredate	foredated	foredates	foredating	foredeck	foredecks	foredid	foredo	foredoing	foredoom	foredoomed	foredooming	foredooms	forefather	forefathers	forefeels	forefeet	forefend	forefended	forefends	forefinger	forefingers	forefoot	forefront	foregather	forego	foregoer	foregoers	foregoes	foregoing	foregone	foreground	foregrounds	foregut	forehand	forehanded	forehandedly	forehandedness	forehands	forehead	foreheads	forehoof	forehoofs	forehooves	foreign	foreigner	foreigners	foreignness	forejudge	forejudger	forejudgment	foreknew	foreknow	foreknowing	foreknowledge	foreknown	foreknows	foreladies	forelady	foreland	forelands	foreleg	forelegs	forelimb	forelimbs	forelock	forelocks	foreman	foremanship	foremast	foremasts	foremen	foremost	foremother	forename	forenamed	forenames	forenoon	forenoons	forensic	forensically	forensics	foreordain	foreordained	foreordaining	foreordainment	foreordainments	foreordains	foreordination	forepart	foreparts	forepaw	forepaws	forepeaks	foreplay	foreplays	forepleasure	forequarter	forequarters	foreran	forerun	forerunner	forerunners	foreruns	fores	foresaid	foresail	foresails	foresaw	foresee	foreseeability	foreseeable	foreseeing	foreseen	foreseer	foreseers	foresees	foreshadow	foreshadowed	foreshadower	foreshadowing	foreshadows	foresheet	foresheets	foreshore	foreshorten	foreshortened	foreshortening	foreshortens	foreshowed	foreshown	foreshows	foreside	foresides	foresight	foresighted	foresightedly	foresightedness	foreskin	foreskins	forest	forestall	forestalled	forestaller	forestalling	forestalls	forestation	forestay	forestays	forested	forester	foresters	forestery	foresting	forestry	forests	foreswear	foreswearing	foreswore	foresworn	foretaste	foretasted	foretastes	foretasting	foretell	foreteller	foretellers	foretelling	foretells	forethought	forethoughtful	foretime	foretimes	foretoken	foretokened	foretokening	foretokens	foretold	foretop	foretops	forever	forevermore	forevers	forewarn	forewarned	forewarning	forewarns	forewent	forewing	forewings	forewoman	forewomen	foreword	forewords	foreworn	foreyard	forfeit	forfeitable	forfeitableness	forfeited	forfeiting	forfeits	forfeiture	forfeitures	forfend	forfended	forfending	forfends	forgather	forgathered	forgathering	forgathers	forgave	forge	forged	forger	forgeries	forgers	forgery	forges	forget	forgetful	forgetfully	forgetfulness	forgets	forgettable	forgetting	forging	forgings	forgivable	forgive	forgiven	forgiveness	forgiver	forgivers	forgives	forgiving	forgo	forgoer	forgoers	forgoes	forgoing	forgone	forgot	forgotten	forint	forints	forjudge	forjudged	forjudger	forjudges	forjudging	fork	forked	forkedly	forker	forkers	forkful	forkfuls	forkier	forking	forkless	forklift	forklifts	forklike	forks	forksful	forky	forlorn	forlorner	forlornest	forlornly	form	forma	formable	formal	formaldehyde	formalin	formalins	formalism	formalist	formalistic	formalistically	formalities	formality	formalization	formalize	formalized	formalizer	formalizes	formalizing	formally	formals	formant	format	formated	formating	formation	formations	formative	formats	formatted	formatter	formatters	formatting	formed	former	formerly	formers	formfeed	formfeeds	formfitting	formful	formic	formica	formidable	formidably	forming	formless	formlessly	formlessness	forms	formula	formulae	formulary	formulas	formulate	formulated	formulates	formulating	formulation	formulations	formulator	formulators	fornicate	fornicated	fornicates	fornicating	fornication	fornications	fornicator	fornicators	fornicatrices	fornicatrix	forsake	forsaken	forsaker	forsakers	forsakes	forsaking	forsee	forseeable	forseen	forsook	forsooth	forspent	forswear	forswearing	forswears	forswore	forsworn	forsythia	forsythias	fort	forte	fortes	forth	forthcoming	forthright	forthrightly	forthrightness	forthwith	forties	fortieth	fortieths	fortification	fortifications	fortified	fortifier	fortifiers	fortifies	fortify	fortifying	fortiori	fortis	fortissimo	fortitude	fortnight	fortnightly	fortnights	fortran	fortress	fortressed	fortresses	forts	fortuities	fortuitous	fortuitously	fortuitus	fortuity	fortunate	fortunately	fortunateness	fortune	fortuned	fortunes	fortuneteller	fortunetellers	fortunetelling	fortuning	forty	fortyfive	fortyfives	forum	forums	forward	forwarded	forwarder	forwarders	forwardest	forwarding	forwardly	forwardness	forwards	forwardsearch	forwent	forwhy	forworn	forzando	forzandos	fossa	fossae	fossate	fosse	fosses	fossil	fossilization	fossilize	fossilized	fossilizes	fossilizing	fossillike	fossils	foster	fosterage	fostered	fosterer	fosterers	fostering	fosterling	fosterlings	fosters	fought	foul	foulard	foulards	fouled	fouler	foulest	fouling	foulings	foully	foulmouthed	foulness	fouls	found	foundation	foundational	foundations	founded	founder	foundered	foundering	founders	founding	foundling	foundlings	foundress	foundries	foundry	founds	fount	fountain	fountained	fountainhead	fountainheads	fountains	founts	four	fourflusher	fourflushers	fourfold	fourpenny	fourposter	fourposters	fours	fourscore	foursome	foursomes	foursquare	fourteen	fourteens	fourteenth	fourteenths	fourth	fourthly	fourths	fovea	foveae	foveal	foveate	fowl	fowled	fowler	fowlers	fowling	fowlings	fowlpox	fowls	fox	foxed	foxes	foxfire	foxfires	foxfish	foxglove	foxgloves	foxhole	foxholes	foxhound	foxhounds	foxier	foxiest	foxily	foxiness	foxing	foxings	foxskin	foxskins	foxtail	foxtails	foxtrot	foxy	foyer	foyers	fps	frabjous	fracas	fracases	fraction	fractional	fractionalize	fractionalized	fractionalizing	fractionally	fractioned	fractions	fractious	fractiously	fracture	fractured	fractures	fracturing	frag	fragged	fragging	fraggings	fragile	fragileness	fragilities	fragility	fragment	fragmental	fragmentally	fragmentarily	fragmentariness	fragmentary	fragmentate	fragmentation	fragmented	fragmenting	fragments	fragrance	fragrances	fragrancy	fragrant	fragrantly	frags	frail	frailer	frailest	frailly	frailness	frails	frailties	frailty	framable	frambesia	frame	framed	framer	framers	frames	framework	frameworks	framing	franc	franca	francas	france	frances	franchise	franchised	franchisee	franchisees	franchiser	franchisers	franchises	franchising	francis	franciscan	franciscans	francisco	francium	franciums	franco	francs	frangibility	frangible	frank	franked	frankenstein	frankensteins	franker	frankers	frankest	frankfort	frankfurt	frankfurter	frankfurters	frankincense	franking	franklin	franklins	frankly	frankness	franks	frantic	frantically	franz	frappe	frapped	frappes	frapping	fraps	frat	frater	fraternal	fraternalism	fraternally	fraternities	fraternity	fraternization	fraternize	fraternized	fraternizer	fraternizes	fraternizing	fratriage	fratricidal	fratricide	fratricides	frats	frau	fraud	frauds	fraudulence	fraudulent	fraudulently	fraudulentness	frauen	fraught	fraughted	fraughts	fraulein	frauleins	fraus	fray	frayed	fraying	frayings	frays	frazzle	frazzled	frazzles	frazzling	freak	freaked	freakier	freakiest	freakily	freaking	freakish	freakishly	freakishness	freakout	freakouts	freaks	freaky	freckle	freckled	freckles	frecklier	freckliest	freckling	freckly	fred	frederick	free	freebee	freebees	freebie	freebies	freeboard	freeboot	freebooted	freebooter	freebooters	freeboots	freeborn	freed	freedman	freedmen	freedom	freedoms	freeform	freehand	freehanded	freehandedly	freehearted	freeheartedly	freehold	freeholder	freeholders	freeholds	freeing	freelance	freelanced	freelances	freelancing	freeload	freeloaded	freeloader	freeloaders	freeloading	freeloads	freely	freeman	freemason	freemasonry	freemasons	freemen	freeness	freeport	freer	frees	freest	freestanding	freestone	freestones	freethinker	freethinkers	freethinking	freeway	freeways	freewheel	freewheelers	freewheeling	freewill	freezable	freeze	freezed	freezer	freezers	freezes	freezing	freight	freightage	freighted	freighter	freighters	freighting	freights	freightyard	french	frenched	frenches	frenching	frenchman	frenchmen	frenchwoman	frenchwomen	frenetic	frenetically	frenetics	frenum	frenzied	frenzies	frenzily	frenzy	frenzying	freon	frequencies	frequency	frequent	frequentation	frequented	frequenter	frequenters	frequenting	frequently	frequentness	frequents	frere	freres	fresco	frescoed	frescoer	frescoers	frescoes	frescoing	frescoist	frescoists	frescos	fresh	freshed	freshen	freshened	freshener	fresheners	freshening	freshens	fresher	freshes	freshest	freshet	freshets	freshing	freshly	freshman	freshmen	freshness	freshwater	fresnel	fresnels	fresno	fret	fretful	fretfully	fretfulness	fretless	frets	fretsaw	fretsaws	fretsome	fretted	fretter	fretters	frettier	frettiest	fretting	fretwork	fretworks	freud	freudian	freudianism	freudians	friability	friable	friableness	friar	friaries	friarly	friars	friary	fricassee	fricasseed	fricasseeing	fricassees	fricative	friction	frictional	frictionless	frictions	friday	fridays	fridge	fridges	fried	friedman	friend	friended	friending	friendless	friendlessness	friendlier	friendlies	friendliest	friendliness	friendly	friends	friendship	friendships	frier	friers	fries	frieze	friezes	frig	frigate	frigates	frigged	frigging	fright	frighted	frighten	frightened	frightening	frighteningly	frightens	frightful	frightfully	frightfulness	frighting	frights	frigid	frigidities	frigidity	frigidly	frigs	frijole	frijoles	frill	frilled	friller	frillers	frillier	frilliest	frilliness	frilling	frillings	frills	frilly	fringe	fringed	fringeless	fringelike	fringes	fringier	fringiest	fringing	fringy	fripperies	frippery	frisbee	frisbees	frisian	frisk	frisked	frisker	friskers	friskets	friskier	friskiest	friskily	friskiness	frisking	frisks	frisky	frisson	frissons	fritted	fritter	frittered	fritterer	fritterers	frittering	fritters	fritting	frivol	frivoled	frivoler	frivolers	frivoling	frivolities	frivolity	frivolled	frivolling	frivolous	frivolously	friz	frizettes	frizz	frizzed	frizzer	frizzers	frizzes	frizzier	frizziest	frizzily	frizziness	frizzing	frizzle	frizzled	frizzler	frizzlers	frizzles	frizzlier	frizzliest	frizzling	frizzly	frizzy	fro	frock	frocked	frocking	frocks	froes	frog	frogeye	frogeyed	frogeyes	frogfishes	frogged	froggier	froggiest	frogging	froggy	frogman	frogmen	frogs	frolic	frolicked	frolicker	frolickers	frolicking	frolicky	frolics	frolicsome	from	fromage	fromages	frond	fronds	front	frontage	frontager	frontages	frontal	frontally	frontals	fronted	fronter	frontier	frontiers	frontiersman	frontiersmen	fronting	frontispiece	frontispieces	frontlets	fronts	frontward	frosh	frost	frostbit	frostbite	frostbites	frostbiting	frostbitten	frosted	frosteds	frostier	frostiest	frostily	frostiness	frosting	frostings	frostlike	frosts	frostwork	frosty	froth	frothed	frothier	frothiest	frothily	frothiness	frothing	froths	frothy	froufrou	froufrous	frouncing	frow	froward	frowardness	frown	frowned	frowner	frowners	frowning	frowningly	frowns	frowsier	frowstier	frowstiest	frowsty	frowsy	frowzier	frowziest	frowzily	frowziness	frowzy	froze	frozen	frozenly	frozenness	fructified	fructifies	fructify	fructifying	fructose	fructoses	fructuary	frug	frugal	frugalities	frugality	frugally	frugged	frugging	frugs	fruit	fruitages	fruitcake	fruitcakes	fruited	fruiter	fruiterer	fruiterers	fruiters	fruitful	fruitfully	fruitfulness	fruitier	fruitiest	fruitiness	fruiting	fruition	fruitions	fruitless	fruitlessly	fruitlessness	fruitlet	fruitlets	fruits	fruity	frumenties	frumenty	frump	frumpier	frumpiest	frumpily	frumpish	frumps	frumpy	frusta	frustrate	frustrated	frustrates	frustrating	frustratingly	frustration	frustrations	frustum	frustums	fry	fryer	fryers	frying	frypan	frypans	fubbed	fubbing	fubsier	fuchsia	fuchsias	fuck	fucked	fucking	fucks	fuddle	fuddled	fuddles	fuddling	fudge	fudged	fudges	fudging	fuds	fuehrer	fuehrers	fuel	fueled	fueler	fuelers	fueling	fuelled	fueller	fuellers	fuelling	fuels	fugal	fugally	fugatos	fugged	fuggier	fugging	fuggy	fugit	fugitive	fugitively	fugitives	fugs	fugue	fugued	fugues	fuguing	fuguist	fuguists	fuhrer	fuhrers	fuji	fujis	fulcra	fulcrum	fulcrums	fulfil	fulfill	fulfilled	fulfiller	fulfillers	fulfilling	fulfillment	fulfillments	fulfills	fulfils	fulgent	fulgurant	fulgurate	full	fullback	fullbacks	fulled	fuller	fullered	fulleries	fullering	fullers	fullery	fullest	fullface	fullfil	fulling	fullness	fulls	fullterm	fulltime	fully	fulminant	fulminate	fulminated	fulminates	fulminating	fulmination	fulminations	fulminator	fulness	fulnesses	fulsome	fulsomely	fulsomeness	fulvous	fumaric	fumarole	fumaroles	fumarolic	fumatory	fumble	fumbled	fumbler	fumblers	fumbles	fumbling	fume	fumed	fumeless	fumer	fumers	fumes	fumet	fumets	fumettes	fumier	fumiest	fumigant	fumigants	fumigate	fumigated	fumigates	fumigating	fumigation	fumigations	fumigator	fumigators	fuming	fumitory	fumy	fun	function	functional	functionalist	functionalistic	functionalities	functionality	functionally	functionaries	functionary	functioned	functioning	functionless	functions	fund	fundament	fundamental	fundamentalism	fundamentalist	fundamentalists	fundamentally	fundamentals	funded	fundi	funding	funds	funeral	funerals	funerary	funereal	funereally	funfair	funfairs	fungal	fungi	fungic	fungicidal	fungicidally	fungicide	fungicides	fungiform	fungitoxic	fungoid	fungoids	fungosity	fungous	fungus	funguses	funicular	funiculars	funiculus	funk	funked	funker	funkers	funkier	funkiest	funking	funks	funky	funned	funnel	funneled	funneling	funnelled	funnelling	funnels	funnier	funnies	funniest	funnily	funniness	funning	funny	funnyman	funnymen	fur	furbelow	furbelows	furbish	furbished	furbishes	furbishing	furcated	furcates	furcula	furculae	furcular	furies	furioso	furious	furiously	furl	furlable	furled	furler	furlers	furless	furling	furlong	furlongs	furlough	furloughed	furloughing	furloughs	furls	furnace	furnaced	furnaces	furnacing	furnish	furnished	furnisher	furnishes	furnishing	furnishings	furniture	furor	furore	furores	furors	furred	furrier	furrieries	furriers	furriery	furriest	furrily	furriner	furriners	furriness	furring	furrings	furrow	furrowed	furrower	furrowers	furrowing	furrows	furrowy	furry	furs	further	furtherance	furthered	furthering	furthermore	furthermost	furthers	furthest	furtive	furtively	furtiveness	furuncle	furuncles	fury	furze	furzes	furzier	furzy	fuse	fused	fusee	fusees	fusel	fuselage	fuselages	fuseless	fusels	fuses	fusible	fusibleness	fusibly	fusiform	fusil	fusile	fusileer	fusileers	fusilier	fusiliers	fusillade	fusillades	fusils	fusing	fusion	fusional	fusions	fuss	fussbudget	fussbudgets	fussed	fusser	fussers	fusses	fussier	fussiest	fussily	fussiness	fussing	fusspot	fusspots	fussy	fustian	fustians	fustic	fustics	fustier	fustiest	fustily	fustiness	fusty	futhermore	futile	futilely	futileness	futilities	futility	futural	future	futureless	futures	futurism	futurisms	futurist	futuristic	futuristically	futurists	futurities	futurity	futurologist	futurologists	futurology	fuze	fuzed	fuzee	fuzees	fuzes	fuzil	fuzils	fuzing	fuzz	fuzzed	fuzzes	fuzzier	fuzziest	fuzzily	fuzziness	fuzzing	fuzzy	fwd	fylfot	fylfots	ga	gab	gabardine	gabardines	gabbed	gabber	gabbers	gabbier	gabbiest	gabbiness	gabbing	gabble	gabbled	gabbler	gabblers	gabbles	gabbling	gabbro	gabbroic	gabbros	gabby	gaberdine	gaberdines	gabfest	gabfests	gable	gabled	gables	gabling	gabon	gabriel	gabs	gad	gadabout	gadabouts	gadded	gadder	gadders	gadding	gadflies	gadfly	gadget	gadgeteer	gadgeteers	gadgetries	gadgetry	gadgets	gadgety	gadolinium	gads	gadzooks	gaelic	gaels	gaff	gaffe	gaffed	gaffer	gaffers	gaffes	gaffing	gaffs	gag	gaga	gage	gaged	gager	gagers	gages	gagged	gagger	gaggers	gagging	gaggle	gaggled	gaggles	gaggling	gaging	gagman	gagmen	gags	gagster	gagsters	gaieties	gaiety	gaily	gain	gainable	gained	gainer	gainers	gainful	gainfully	gainfulness	gaining	gainless	gainlier	gainliest	gainly	gains	gainsaid	gainsay	gainsayer	gainsayers	gainsaying	gainsays	gainst	gait	gaited	gaiter	gaiters	gaiting	gaits	gal	gala	galactic	galactoscope	galactose	galahad	galahads	galas	galatea	galateas	galatians	galax	galaxies	galaxy	gale	galena	galenas	galenic	galenite	gales	galilean	galilee	galilees	galilei	galileo	galipot	galivant	gall	gallamine	gallant	gallanted	gallanting	gallantly	gallantries	gallantry	gallants	gallbladder	gallbladders	galled	galleon	galleons	galleried	galleries	gallery	gallerying	galley	galleys	gallflies	galliard	galliards	gallic	gallicism	gallicisms	gallied	gallies	gallimaufries	gallimaufry	galling	gallingly	gallinule	gallinules	gallium	galliums	gallivant	gallivanted	gallivanter	gallivanters	gallivanting	gallivants	gallnuts	gallon	gallons	galloot	galloots	gallop	galloped	galloper	gallopers	galloping	gallops	gallows	gallowses	galls	gallstone	gallstones	gallup	gallus	galluses	gally	galoot	galoots	galop	galops	galore	galores	galosh	galoshed	galoshes	gals	galumph	galumphed	galumphing	galumphs	galvanic	galvanically	galvanism	galvanization	galvanizations	galvanize	galvanized	galvanizer	galvanizers	galvanizes	galvanizing	galvanometer	galvanometers	galvanometric	gam	gamba	gambas	gambian	gambians	gambias	gambit	gambits	gamble	gambled	gambler	gamblers	gambles	gambling	gambol	gamboled	gamboling	gambolled	gambolling	gambols	gambrel	gambusias	game	gamecock	gamecocks	gamed	gamekeeper	gamekeepers	gamelan	gamelans	gamely	gameness	gamer	games	gamesmanship	gamesome	gamesomely	gamest	gamester	gamesters	gamete	gametes	gametic	gamey	gamic	gamier	gamiest	gamily	gamin	gamine	gamines	gaminess	gaming	gamings	gamins	gamma	gammas	gammer	gammon	gammons	gams	gamut	gamuts	gamy	gander	gandered	gandering	ganders	gandhi	ganef	ganefs	ganev	ganevs	gang	ganged	ganger	gangers	ganges	ganging	gangland	ganglands	ganglia	ganglial	gangliar	gangliate	ganglier	gangliest	gangling	ganglion	ganglionic	ganglions	gangly	gangplank	gangplanks	gangplow	gangplows	gangrel	gangrene	gangrened	gangrenes	gangrening	gangrenous	gangs	gangster	gangsterism	gangsters	gangues	gangway	gangways	ganja	gannet	gannets	ganser	gantlet	gantleted	gantleting	gantlets	gantries	gantry	ganymede	ganymedes	gaol	gaoled	gaoler	gaolers	gaoling	gaols	gap	gape	gaped	gaper	gapers	gapes	gaping	gapingly	gaposis	gapped	gappier	gapping	gappy	gaps	gapy	gar	garage	garaged	garages	garaging	garb	garbage	garbages	garbanzo	garbanzos	garbed	garbing	garble	garbled	garbler	garblers	garbles	garbless	garbling	garbo	garbs	garcon	garcons	garde	garden	gardened	gardener	gardeners	gardenia	gardenias	gardening	gardens	garfield	garfish	garfishes	gargantua	gargantuan	gargle	gargled	gargler	garglers	gargles	gargling	gargoyle	gargoyled	gargoyles	garibaldi	garish	garishly	garishness	garland	garlanded	garlanding	garlands	garlic	garlicky	garlics	garment	garmented	garmenting	garments	garner	garnered	garnering	garners	garnet	garnetlike	garnets	garnish	garnishable	garnished	garnishee	garnisheed	garnisheeing	garnishees	garnishes	garnishing	garnishment	garnishments	garniture	garnitures	garoted	garotes	garoting	garotte	garotted	garotter	garotters	garottes	garotting	garret	garrets	garrison	garrisoned	garrisoning	garrisons	garrote	garroted	garroter	garroters	garrotes	garroting	garrotte	garrotted	garrotter	garrottes	garrotting	garrulity	garrulous	garrulously	garrulousness	gars	garter	gartered	gartering	garters	garth	garths	gary	gas	gasbag	gasbags	gaseous	gaseously	gaseousness	gases	gash	gashed	gasher	gashes	gashing	gashouse	gashouses	gasified	gasifier	gasifies	gasiform	gasify	gasifying	gasket	gaskets	gasless	gaslight	gaslights	gaslit	gasman	gasmen	gasogenes	gasohol	gasoliers	gasoline	gasolines	gasp	gasped	gasper	gaspers	gasping	gasps	gassed	gasser	gassers	gasses	gassier	gassiest	gassiness	gassing	gassings	gassy	gastight	gastrectomies	gastrectomy	gastric	gastritis	gastroenteric	gastroenteritis	gastroenterological	gastroenterologically	gastroenterologist	gastroenterologists	gastroenterology	gastrointestinal	gastrolavage	gastrologist	gastrologists	gastrology	gastronome	gastronomes	gastronomic	gastronomical	gastronomically	gastronomy	gastropod	gastropods	gastroscope	gastroscopic	gastroscopy	gastrostomy	gastrulas	gasworks	gat	gate	gatecrasher	gatecrashers	gated	gatefold	gatefolds	gatekeeper	gatekeepers	gateless	gateman	gatemen	gatepost	gateposts	gates	gateway	gateways	gather	gathered	gatherer	gatherers	gathering	gatherings	gathers	gating	gator	gats	gatsby	gauche	gauchely	gaucheness	gaucher	gaucherie	gaucheries	gauchest	gaucho	gauchos	gaud	gauderies	gaudery	gaudier	gaudies	gaudiest	gaudily	gaudiness	gauds	gaudy	gauge	gaugeable	gauged	gauger	gaugers	gauges	gauging	gauls	gaunt	gaunter	gauntest	gauntlet	gauntleted	gauntlets	gauntly	gauntness	gauntries	gauss	gausses	gauze	gauzes	gauzier	gauziest	gauzily	gauziness	gauzy	gavage	gave	gavel	gaveled	gaveler	gaveling	gavelled	gaveller	gavelling	gavels	gavot	gavots	gavotte	gavotted	gavottes	gavotting	gawk	gawked	gawker	gawkers	gawkier	gawkies	gawkiest	gawkily	gawking	gawkish	gawks	gawky	gay	gayer	gayest	gayeties	gayety	gayly	gayness	gaynesses	gays	gaze	gazebo	gazeboes	gazebos	gazed	gazelle	gazelles	gazer	gazers	gazes	gazette	gazetted	gazetteer	gazetteers	gazettes	gazetting	gazing	gazpacho	gazpachos	gds	gear	gearbox	gearboxes	gearcase	gearcases	geared	gearing	gearings	gearless	gears	gearshift	gearshifts	gearwheel	gearwheels	gecko	geckoes	geckos	gecks	gee	geed	geegaw	geegaws	geeing	geek	geeks	gees	geese	geezer	geezers	gefilte	geiger	geisha	geishas	gel	gelable	gelatin	gelatine	gelatines	gelating	gelatinization	gelatinize	gelatinized	gelatinizing	gelatinous	gelatinously	gelatins	geld	gelded	gelder	gelders	gelding	geldings	gelds	gelee	gelees	gelid	gelidity	gelidly	gelignite	gelled	gelling	gels	gelt	gelts	gem	geminate	geminated	geminates	geminating	gemination	geminations	gemini	geminis	gemmier	gemmiest	gemmily	gemmological	gemmologist	gemmologists	gemmy	gemological	gemologies	gemologist	gemologists	gemology	gems	gemsbok	gemsbucks	gemstone	gemstones	gemutlich	gemutlichkeit	gen	genal	gendarme	gendarmerie	gendarmes	gender	gendered	gendering	genders	gene	genealogical	genealogically	genealogies	genealogist	genealogists	genealogy	genera	general	generalissimo	generalissimos	generalists	generalities	generality	generalizable	generalization	generalizations	generalize	generalized	generalizer	generalizes	generalizing	generally	generals	generalship	generalships	generate	generated	generates	generating	generation	generational	generations	generative	generatively	generator	generators	generic	generically	generics	generis	generosities	generosity	generous	generously	generousness	genes	geneses	genesis	genet	genetic	genetically	geneticist	geneticists	genetics	geneva	genevas	genghis	genial	geniality	genially	genic	genie	genies	genii	genital	genitalia	genitalic	genitals	genitive	genitives	genitors	genitourinary	geniture	genitures	genius	geniuses	genoa	genocidal	genocide	genocides	genome	genomes	genomic	genotype	genotypes	genotypic	genotypical	genre	genres	gens	gent	genteel	genteeler	genteelest	genteelly	genteelness	gentian	gentians	gentil	gentile	gentiles	gentility	gentle	gentled	gentlefolk	gentlefolks	gentleman	gentlemanlike	gentlemanly	gentlemen	gentleness	gentler	gentles	gentlest	gentlewoman	gentlewomen	gentling	gently	gentries	gentrification	gentry	gents	genuflect	genuflected	genuflecting	genuflection	genuflections	genuflects	genuine	genuinely	genuineness	genus	genuses	geocentric	geocentrically	geochemical	geochemist	geochemistry	geochemists	geode	geodes	geodesic	geodesics	geodesist	geodesists	geodesy	geodetic	geodic	geoduck	geoducks	geog	geographer	geographers	geographic	geographical	geographically	geographies	geography	geoid	geoidal	geoids	geol	geologer	geologers	geologic	geological	geologically	geologies	geologist	geologists	geology	geom	geomagnetic	geomagnetism	geomancies	geomancy	geomedicine	geometer	geometers	geometric	geometrical	geometrically	geometrician	geometricians	geometries	geometry	geomorphology	geophones	geophysical	geophysicist	geophysicists	geophysics	geophytes	geopolitics	george	georgia	georgian	georgians	georgic	geoscientist	geoscientists	geostationary	geosynchronous	geosynclinal	geosyncline	geosynclines	geotaxy	geothermal	geothermic	geotropic	geotropically	gerald	geranium	geraniums	gerardias	gerbil	gerbils	geriatric	geriatrician	geriatrics	geriatrist	germ	german	germane	germanely	germaneness	germanic	germanies	germanium	germaniums	germanized	germans	germantown	germany	germen	germfree	germicidal	germicide	germicides	germier	germiest	germinal	germinate	germinated	germinates	germinating	germination	germinations	germproof	germs	germy	gerontic	gerontological	gerontologies	gerontologist	gerontologists	gerontology	gerontotherapies	gerontotherapy	gerrymander	gerrymandered	gerrymandering	gerrymanders	gertrude	gerund	gerunds	gesso	gessoes	gestalt	gestalten	gestalts	gestapo	gestapos	gestate	gestated	gestates	gestating	gestation	gestational	gestations	geste	gestes	gesticulate	gesticulated	gesticulates	gesticulating	gesticulation	gesticulations	gests	gestural	gesture	gestured	gesturer	gesturers	gestures	gesturing	gesundheit	get	getable	getaway	getaways	gets	gettable	getter	gettered	getters	getting	gettysburg	getup	getups	geum	geums	gewgaw	gewgaws	geyser	geysers	ghana	ghanaians	ghanian	ghast	ghastful	ghastlier	ghastliest	ghastliness	ghastly	ghat	ghats	ghee	ghees	gherkin	gherkins	ghetto	ghettoed	ghettoes	ghettoing	ghettoize	ghettoized	ghettoizes	ghettoizing	ghettos	ghost	ghosted	ghostier	ghostiest	ghosting	ghostlier	ghostliest	ghostlike	ghostliness	ghostly	ghosts	ghostwrite	ghostwriter	ghostwriters	ghostwrites	ghostwriting	ghostwritten	ghostwrote	ghosty	ghoul	ghoulish	ghoulishly	ghoulishness	ghouls	giant	giantess	giantesses	giantism	giantisms	giants	gibbed	gibber	gibbered	gibbering	gibberish	gibbers	gibbet	gibbeted	gibbeting	gibbets	gibbetted	gibbing	gibbon	gibbons	gibbosities	gibbosity	gibbous	gibbously	gibbousness	gibe	gibed	giber	gibers	gibes	gibing	gibingly	giblet	giblets	gibraltar	gibs	gibsons	giddap	giddied	giddier	giddies	giddiest	giddily	giddiness	giddy	giddying	gift	gifted	giftedly	gifting	giftless	gifts	gig	gigabit	gigabits	gigabyte	gigabytes	gigantic	gigantically	gigantism	gigas	gigaton	gigatons	gigawatt	gigawatts	gigged	gigging	giggle	giggled	giggler	gigglers	giggles	gigglier	giggliest	giggling	gigglingly	giggly	gigolo	gigolos	gigs	gigue	gigues	gila	gilbert	gilberts	gild	gilded	gilder	gilders	gildhall	gilding	gildings	gilds	gill	gilled	giller	gillers	gillie	gillied	gillies	gilling	gillnet	gillnets	gills	gilly	gilt	gilts	gimbal	gimbaled	gimbaling	gimballed	gimballing	gimbals	gimcrack	gimcrackery	gimcracks	gimel	gimels	gimlet	gimleted	gimleting	gimlets	gimmick	gimmicked	gimmicking	gimmickry	gimmicks	gimmicky	gimp	gimped	gimpier	gimpiest	gimping	gimps	gimpy	gin	ginger	gingerbread	gingered	gingering	gingerly	gingers	gingersnap	gingersnaps	gingery	gingham	ginghams	gingivae	gingival	gingivitis	gingko	ginkgo	ginkgoes	ginks	ginned	ginner	ginners	ginnier	ginning	ginnings	ginny	gins	ginseng	ginsengs	gip	gipped	gipper	gippers	gipping	gips	gipsied	gipsies	gipsy	gipsying	giraffe	giraffes	girasol	girasoles	gird	girded	girder	girders	girding	girdle	girdled	girdler	girdlers	girdles	girdling	girds	girl	girlfriend	girlfriends	girlhood	girlhoods	girlie	girlies	girlish	girlishness	girls	girly	girns	giros	girt	girted	girth	girthed	girthing	girths	girting	girts	gismo	gismos	gist	gists	git	gitanos	giuseppe	give	giveable	giveaway	giveaways	given	givens	giver	givers	gives	givin	giving	gizmo	gizmos	gizzard	gizzards	gjetost	gjetosts	glabrous	glace	glaceed	glaceing	glaces	glacial	glacially	glaciate	glaciated	glaciates	glaciating	glacier	glaciered	glaciers	glaciologist	glaciologists	glaciology	glacises	glad	gladded	gladden	gladdened	gladdening	gladdens	gladder	gladdest	gladding	glade	gladelike	glades	gladiate	gladiator	gladiatorial	gladiators	gladier	gladiola	gladiolas	gladioli	gladiolus	gladioluses	gladlier	gladliest	gladly	gladness	glads	gladsome	gladsomely	gladstone	glady	glaive	glaives	glamor	glamorization	glamorizations	glamorize	glamorized	glamorizer	glamorizes	glamorizing	glamorous	glamorously	glamorousness	glamors	glamour	glamoured	glamouring	glamourize	glamourous	glamours	glance	glanced	glances	glancing	glancingly	gland		glanders	glandes	glands	glandular	glandularly	glans	glare	glared	glares	glarier	glaring	glaringly	glary	glasgow	glass	glassblower	glassblowers	glassblowing	glassed	glasser	glasses	glassful	glassfuls	glassie	glassier	glassies	glassiest	glassily	glassine	glassines	glassiness	glassing	glassman	glassmen	glassware	glasswork	glassworker	glassy	glaucoma	glaucomas	glaucomatous	glaucous	glaze	glazed	glazer	glazers	glazes	glazier	glazieries	glaziers	glaziery	glazing	glazings	glazy	gleam	gleamed	gleamier	gleamiest	gleaming	gleams	gleamy	glean	gleanable	gleaned	gleaner	gleaners	gleaning	gleanings	gleans	gleba	glebe	glee	gleeful	gleefully	gleefulness	gleeman	gleemen	glees	gleesome	glen	glendale	glengarries	glengarry	glens	glenwood	glib	glibber	glibbest	glibly	glibness	glide	glided	glider	gliders	glides	gliding	glim	glimmer	glimmered	glimmering	glimmerings	glimmers	glimpse	glimpsed	glimpser	glimpsers	glimpses	glimpsing	glims	glint	glinted	glinting	glints	glissade	glissaded	glissades	glissading	glissandi	glissando	glisten	glistened	glistening	glistens	glister	glistered	glistering	glisters	glitch	glitches	glitter	glittered	glittering	glitters	glittery	glitzy	gloam	gloaming	gloamings	gloat	gloated	gloater	gloaters	gloating	gloats	glob	global	globalism	globalist	globalists	globalization	globalize	globalized	globalizing	globally	globate	globe	globed	globes	globetrotter	globetrotters	globetrotting	globing	globoid	globoids	globose	globosities	globous	globs	globular	globularity	globularly	globularness	globule	globules	globulin	globulins	glockenspiel	glockenspiels	glogg	gloggs	glom	glommed	glomming	gloms	gloom	gloomed	gloomful	gloomier	gloomiest	gloomily	gloominess	glooming	gloomings	glooms	gloomy	glop	glops	gloria	gloriam	glorias	gloried	glories	glorification	glorifications	glorified	glorifier	glorifiers	glorifies	glorify	glorifying	glorious	gloriously	gloriousness	glory	glorying	gloss	glossal	glossarial	glossaries	glossary	glossed	glosser	glossers	glosses	glossier	glossies	glossiest	glossily	glossiness	glossing	glossolalia	glossologies	glossy	glottal	glottic	glottides	glottis	glottises	glottologies	glove	gloved	glover	glovers	gloves	gloving	glow	glowed	glower	glowered	glowering	glowers	glowflies	glowfly	glowing	glows	glowworm	glowworms	gloxinia	gloxinias	gloze	glucose	glucoses	glucosic	glue	glued	glueing	gluer	gluers	glues	gluey	gluier	gluiest	gluily	gluing	glum	glumly	glummer	glummest	glumness	glut	glutamate	glutamates	glutamine	gluteal	glutei	gluten	gluteus	glutinous	glutinously	gluts	glutted	glutting	glutton	gluttonies	gluttonous	gluttonously	gluttons	gluttony	glycemia	glyceraldehyde	glyceride	glycerin	glycerine	glycerins	glycerol	glycerols	glycerose	glyceryl	glyceryls	glycogen	glycogenic	glycogens	glycol	glycols	glycoside	glycosides	glycosidic	glycosyls	glyoxylic	glyph	glyphic	glyphs	glyptic	glyptics	gnarl	gnarled	gnarlier	gnarliest	gnarling	gnarls	gnarly	gnars	gnash	gnashed	gnashes	gnashing	gnat	gnats	gnattier	gnaw	gnawable	gnawed	gnawer	gnawers	gnawing	gnawingly	gnawings	gnawn	gnaws	gneiss	gneisses	gneissic	gnocchi	gnome	gnomes	gnomic	gnomical	gnomish	gnomist	gnomists	gnomon	gnomonic	gnomons	gnoses	gnosis	gnostic	gnotobiologies	gnotobiology	gnotobiotic	gnotobiotically	gnotobiotics	gnu	gnus	go	goad	goaded	goading	goads	goal	goaled	goalie	goalies	goaling	goalkeeper	goalkeepers	goalless	goalpost	goalposts	goals	goaltender	goaltenders	goat	goatee	goateed	goatees	goatfish	goatherd	goatherds	goatish	goats	goatskin	goatskins	gob	gobbed	gobbet	gobbets	gobbing	gobble	gobbled	gobbledegook	gobbledygook	gobbler	gobblers	gobbles	gobbling	gobies	goblet	goblets	goblin	goblins	goboes	gobos	gobs	goby	god	godchild	godchildren	goddam	goddamn	goddamned	goddamning	goddamns	goddams	goddard	goddaughter	goddaughters	goddess	goddesses	godding	godfather	godfathers	godhead	godheads	godhood	godhoods	godless	godlessly	godlessness	godlier	godliest	godlike	godlily	godliness	godling	godlings	godly	godmother	godmothers	godowns	godparent	godparents	gods	godsend	godsends	godship	godships	godson	godsons	godspeed	godwit	godwits	goebbels	goer	goers	goes	goethe	gofer	gofers	goffer	goffered	goggle	goggled	goggler	gogglers	goggles	gogglier	goggliest	goggling	goggly	goglets	gogo	gogos	going	goings	goiter	goiters	goitre	goitres	goitrous	golcondas	gold	goldarn	goldarns	goldbrick	goldbricker	goldbrickers	goldbricks	goldbugs	golden	goldener	goldenest	goldenly	goldenrod	goldenrods	golder	goldest	goldeyes	goldfield	goldfinch	goldfinches	goldfish	goldfishes	golds	goldsmith	goldsmiths	goldurn	goldurns	golem	golems	golf	golfed	golfer	golfers	golfing	golfings	golfs	golgotha	golgothas	goliaths	golliwog	golliwogs	golly	gombo	gombos	gombroons	gomorrah	gonad	gonadal	gonadectomies	gonadectomized	gonadectomizing	gonadectomy	gonadial	gonadic	gonads	gondola	gondolas	gondolier	gondoliers	gone	goneness	goner	goners	gonfalon	gonfalons	gong	gonged	gonging	gongs	gonif	gonifs	gonococcal	gonococci	gonococcic	gonococcus	gonocytes	gonof	gonofs	gonoph	gonophore	gonophs	gonopores	gonorrhea	gonorrheal	gonorrhoea	goo	goober	goobers	good	goodby	goodbye	goodbyes	goodbys	gooder	gooders	goodie	goodies	goodish	goodlier	goodliest	goodly	goodman	goodmen	goodness	goodnight	goodrich	goods	goodwife	goodwill	goodwills	goodwives	goody	goodyear	gooey	goof	goofball	goofballs	goofed	goofier	goofiest	goofily	goofiness	goofing	goofs	goofy	googlies	googly	googol	googols	gooier	gooiest	gook	gooks	gooky	goon	gooney	gooneys	goonie	goonies	goons	goony	goop	goops	goos	goose	gooseberries	gooseberry	goosed	gooses	goosey	goosier	goosiest	goosing	goosy	gopher	gophers	gorals	gorblimy	gore	gored	gores	gorge	gorged	gorgedly	gorgeous	gorgeously	gorgeousness	gorger	gorgers	gorges	gorget	gorgets	gorging	gorgon	gorgons	gorgonzola	gorier	goriest	gorilla	gorillas	gorily	goriness	goring	gorki	gormand	gormandize	gormandized	gormandizer	gormandizers	gormandizes	gormandizing	gormands	gorse	gorses	gorsier	gorsy	gory	gosh	goshawk	goshawks	gosling	goslings	gospel	gospelers	gospels	gossamer	gossamers	gossip	gossiped	gossiper	gossipers	gossiping	gossipped	gossipping	gossipry	gossips	gossipy	gossoon	got	goth	gothic	gothically	gothicism	gothicist	gothicize	gothics	goths	gotten	gouache	gouaches	gouda	gouge	gouged	gouger	gougers	gouges	gouging	goulash	goulashes	gourami	gouramis	gourd	gourde	gourdes	gourds	gourmand	gourmandize	gourmands	gourmet	gourmets	gout	goutier	goutiest	goutily	goutiness	gouts	gouty	gov	govern	governability	governable	governableness	governance	governed	governess	governesses	governing	government	government's	governmental	governments	governor	governorate	governors	governorship	governorships	governs	govt	gown	gowned	gowning	gowns	gownsman	gownsmen	goy	goyim	goyish	goys	graal	graals	grab	grabbed	grabber	grabbers	grabbier	grabbiest	grabbing	grabby	graben	grabens	grabs	grace	graced	graceful	gracefully	gracefulness	graceless	gracelessly	gracelessness	graces	gracile	graciles	gracilis	gracing	gracioso	graciosos	gracious	graciously	graciousness	grackle	grackles	grad	gradable	gradate	gradated	gradates	gradating	gradation	gradational	gradations	grade	graded	grader	graders	grades	gradient	gradients	grading	grads	gradual	gradualism	gradually	graduals	graduand	graduands	graduate	graduated	graduates	graduating	graduation	graduations	graduator	graduators	graecize	graecized	graecizes	graecizing	graffiti	graffito	graft	graftage	graftages	grafted	grafter	grafters	grafting	grafts	graham	grail	grails	grain	grained	grainer	grainers	grainfield	grainier	grainiest	graininess	graining	grains	grainy	gram	gramarye	gramercy	grammar	grammarian	grammarians	grammars	grammatical	grammatically	gramme	grammes	grammies	grammy	gramophone	gramophones	gramp	gramps	grampus	grampuses	grams	grana	granaries	granary	grand	grandad	grandads	grandam	grandame	grandames	grandams	grandaunt	grandaunts	grandbaby	grandchild	grandchildren	granddad	granddads	granddaughter	granddaughters	grande	grandee	grandees	grander	grandest	grandeur	grandeurs	grandfather	grandfathers	grandiloquence	grandiloquent	grandiloquently	grandiose	grandiosely	grandioseness	grandiosity	grandly	grandma	grandmas	grandmaster	grandmaternal	grandmother	grandmothers	grandnephew	grandnephews	grandness	grandniece	grandnieces	grandpa	grandparent	grandparents	grandpas	grands	grandsir	grandsirs	grandson	grandsons	grandstand	grandstander	grandstands	grandtotal	granduncle	granduncles	grange	granger	grangers	granges	granite	granites	graniteware	granitic	grannie	grannies	granny	granola	grant	grantable	granted	grantee	grantees	granter	granters	granting	grantor	grantors	grants	grantsman	grantsmanship	grantsmen	granular	granularity	granularly	granulate	granulated	granulates	granulating	granulation	granulations	granulator	granulators	granule	granules	granulose	grape	grapefruit	grapefruits	graperies	grapery	grapes	grapeshot	grapevine	grapevines	graph	graphed	graphemes	graphic	graphical	graphically	graphicness	graphics	graphing	graphite	graphites	graphitic	graphological	graphologies	graphologist	graphologists	graphology	graphs	grapier	grapnel	grapnels	grapple	grappled	grappler	grapplers	grapples	grappling	grapy	gras	grasp	graspable	grasped	grasper	graspers	grasping	graspingly	graspingness	grasps	grass	grassed	grassers	grasses	grassfire	grasshopper	grasshoppers	grassier	grassiest	grassily	grassing	grassland	grasslands	grassplot	grassroots	grassy	grata	gratae	grate	grated	grateful	gratefully	gratefulness	grater	graters	grates	gratia	gratias	gratification	gratifications	gratified	gratifies	gratify	gratifying	gratifyingly	gratin	grating	gratingly	gratings	gratins	gratis	gratitude	gratuities	gratuitous	gratuitously	gratuitousness	gratuity	graupel	gravamen	gravamina	grave	graveclothes	graved	gravel	graveled	graveless	graveling	gravelled	gravelling	gravelly	gravels	gravely	graven	graveness	graver	gravers	graves	gravest	gravestone	gravestones	graveyard	graveyards	gravid	gravidity	gravidly	gravidness	gravies	gravimeter	gravimeters	gravimetric	graving	gravitate	gravitated	gravitates	gravitating	gravitation	gravitational	gravitationally	gravitations	gravitative	gravitic	gravities	graviton	gravitons	gravity	gravure	gravures	gravy	gray	graybacks	graybeard	graybeards	grayed	grayer	grayest	graying	grayish	grayling	graylings	grayly	grayness	grayouts	grays	grazable	graze	grazed	grazer	grazers	grazes	grazier	graziers	grazing	grazingly	grazings	grazioso	grease	greased	greasepaint	greaser	greasers	greases	greasewood	greasier	greasiest	greasily	greasiness	greasing	greasy	great	greatcoat	greatcoated	greatcoats	greaten	greatened	greatening	greatens	greater	greatest	greathearted	greatheartedly	greatheartedness	greatly	greatness	greats	greave	greaved	greaves	grebe	grebes	grecian	grecians	grecized	grecizes	greco	greece	greed	greedier	greediest	greedily	greediness	greeds	greedy	greek	greeks	green	greenback	greenbacks	greenbelt	greened	greener	greeneries	greenery	greenest	greenflies	greengrocer	greengrocers	greenhorn	greenhorns	greenhouse	greenhouses	greenier	greeniest	greening	greenings	greenish	greenishness	greenland	greenly	greenness	greenroom	greenrooms	greens	greenstick	greensward	greenthumbed	greenwich	greenwood	greenwoods	greeny	greet	greeted	greeter	greeters	greeting	greetings	greets	gregarious	gregariously	gregariousness	gregorian	gregory	gremlin	gremlins	gremmie	gremmies	gremmy	grenada	grenade	grenades	grenadier	grenadiers	grenadine	grenadines	greta	grew	grey	greyed	greyer	greyest	greyhound	greyhounds	greying	greyish	greyly	greyness	greys	grid	griddle	griddlecake	griddlecakes	griddled	griddles	griddling	grided	grides	gridiron	gridirons	gridlock	grids	grief	griefs	grievance	grievances	grievant	grieve	grieved	griever	grievers	grieves	grieving	grievingly	grievous	grievously	grievousness	griffin	griffins	griffon	griffons	grift	grifted	grifter	grifters	grifting	grifts	grigs	grill	grillades	grillage	grillages	grille	grilled	griller	grillers	grilles	grillework	grilling	grills	grillwork	grim	grimace	grimaced	grimacer	grimacers	grimaces	grimacing	grime	grimed	grimes	grimier	grimiest	grimily	griminess	griming	grimly	grimm	grimmer	grimmest	grimness	grimy	grin	grind	grinded	grinder	grinders	grindery	grinding	grindingly	grindings	grinds	grindstone	grindstones	gringo	gringos	grinned	grinner	grinners	grinning	grins	griot	griots	grip	gripe	griped	griper	gripers	gripes	gripey	gripier	gripiest	griping	grippe	gripped	gripper	grippers	grippes	grippier	grippiest	gripping	grippingly	gripple	grippy	grips	gripsack	gript	gripy	grislier	grisliest	grisly	grist	gristle	gristles	gristlier	gristliest	gristly	gristmill	grists	grit	grits	gritted	grittier	grittiest	grittily	grittiness	gritting	gritty	grizzle	grizzled	grizzler	grizzlers	grizzles	grizzlier	grizzlies	grizzliest	grizzling	grizzly	groan	groaned	groaner	groaners	groaning	groans	groat	groats	grocer	groceries	grocers	grocery	grog	groggery	groggier	groggiest	groggily	grogginess	groggy	grogram	grograms	grogs	grogshop	grogshops	groin	groined	groining	groins	grommet	grommets	groom	groomed	groomer	groomers	grooming	grooms	groomsman	groomsmen	groove	grooved	groover	groovers	grooves	groovier	grooviest	grooving	groovy	grope	groped	groper	gropers	gropes	groping	gropingly	grosbeak	grosbeaks	groschen	grosgrain	grosgrains	gross	grossed	grosser	grossers	grosses	grossest	grossing	grossly	grossness	grosz	grot	grotesque	grotesquely	grotesqueness	grotesques	grots	grotto	grottoes	grottos	grouch	grouched	grouches	grouchier	grouchiest	grouchily	grouchiness	grouching	groucho	grouchy	ground	groundage	grounded	grounder	grounders	groundhog	grounding	groundless	groundlessly	groundlessness	groundling	groundlings	groundmass	groundnut	grounds	groundsheet	groundswell	groundswells	groundwater	groundwave	groundwork	group	grouped	grouper	groupers	groupie	groupies	grouping	groupings	groups	grouse	groused	grouser	grousers	grouses	grousing	grout	grouted	grouter	grouters	groutier	groutiest	grouting	grouts	grouty	grove	groved	grovel	groveled	groveler	grovelers	groveling	grovelled	grovelling	grovels	groves	grow	growable	grower	growers	growing	growl	growled	growler	growlers	growlier	growliest	growling	growlingly	growls	growly	grown	grownup	grownups	grows	growth	growths	grub	grubbed	grubber	grubbers	grubbier	grubbiest	grubbily	grubbiness	grubbing	grubby	grubs	grubstake	grubstaked	grubstaker	grubstakes	grubstaking	grubworm	grubworms	grudge	grudged	grudger	grudgers	grudges	grudging	grudgingly	gruel	grueled	grueler	gruelers	grueling	gruelingly	gruelings	gruelled	grueller	gruellers	gruelling	gruellings	gruels	gruesome	gruesomely	gruesomeness	gruesomer	gruesomest	gruff	gruffed	gruffer	gruffest	gruffish	gruffly	gruffness	gruffs	gruffy	grumble	grumbled	grumbler	grumblers	grumbles	grumbling	grumbly	grump	grumped	grumpier	grumpiest	grumpily	grumpiness	grumping	grumpish	grumps	grumpy	grungier	grungiest	grungy	grunion	grunions	grunt	grunted	grunter	grunters	grunting	gruntingly	gruntle	gruntled	gruntles	grunts	grutten	gryphon	gryphons	guacamole	guaco	guam	guanaco	guanacos	guanin	guanine	guano	guanos	guar	guarani	guaranies	guaranis	guarantee	guaranteed	guaranteeing	guarantees	guarantied	guaranties	guarantor	guarantors	guaranty	guarantying	guard	guardant	guardants	guarded	guardedly	guarder	guarders	guardhouse	guardhouses	guardian	guardians	guardianship	guardianships	guarding	guardrail	guards	guardsman	guardsmen	guars	guatemala	guatemalan	guatemalans	guava	guavas	gubernative	gubernatorial	guck	gucks	gudgeon	gudgeons	guerdon	guerdons	guerilla	guerillas	guernsey	guernseys	guerre	guerrilla	guerrillas	guess	guessed	guesser	guessers	guesses	guessing	guesstimate	guesstimates	guesswork	guest	guested	guesting	guests	guff	guffaw	guffawed	guffawing	guffaws	guffs	guiana	guidable	guidance	guidances	guide	guidebook	guidebooks	guided	guideline	guidelines	guideposts	guider	guiders	guides	guiding	guidon	guidons	guild	guilder	guilders	guildhall	guildry	guilds	guile	guiled	guileful	guileless	guilelessly	guilelessness	guiles	guiling	guillotine	guillotined	guillotines	guillotining	guilt	guiltier	guiltiest	guiltily	guiltiness	guiltless	guiltlessly	guiltlessness	guilts	guilty	guinea	guinean	guineas	guiro	guise	guised	guises	guising	guitar	guitarist	guitarists	guitars	gulch	gulches	gulden	guldens	gulf	gulfed	gulfier	gulfing	gulflike	gulfs	gulfweed	gulfy	gull	gullable	gullably	gulled	gullet	gullets	gulley	gulleys	gullibility	gullible	gullibly	gullied	gullies	gulling	gulls	gully	gullying	gulp	gulped	gulper	gulpers	gulpier	gulping	gulps	gulpy	gum	gumbo	gumboil	gumboils	gumbos	gumdrop	gumdrops	gumless	gumlike	gummed	gummer	gummers	gummier	gummiest	gumming	gummites	gummy	gumption	gumptions	gums	gumshoe	gumshoed	gumshoes	gumtree	gumtrees	gumweed	gumweeds	gumwood	gumwoods	gun	gunbarrel	gunboat	gunboats	guncotton	gundog	gunfight	gunfighter	gunfighters	gunfights	gunfire	gunfires	gung	gunk	gunks	gunless	gunlock	gunlocks	gunman	gunmen	gunmetal	gunmetals	gunned	gunnel	gunnels	gunner	gunneries	gunners	gunnery	gunnies	gunning	gunnings	gunny	gunnysack	gunnysacks	gunpapers	gunplay	gunplays	gunpoint	gunpoints	gunpowder	gunroom	gunrooms	gunrunner	gunrunning	guns	gunsel	gunsels	gunship	gunships	gunshot	gunshots	gunslinger	gunslingers	gunslinging	gunsmith	gunsmiths	gunstock	gunstocks	gunwale	gunwales	gunwhale	guppies	guppy	gurgle	gurgled	gurgles	gurgling	gurney	gurneys	guru	gurus	gush	gushed	gusher	gushers	gushes	gushier	gushiest	gushily	gushing	gushy	gusset	gusseted	gusseting	gussets	gussied	gussies	gussy	gussying	gust	gustable	gustation	gustative	gustatorial	gustatorially	gustatorily	gustatory	gusted	gustier	gustiest	gustily	gusting	gustless	gusto	gustoes	gusts	gusty	gut	gutless	gutlessness	gutlike	guts	gutsier	gutsiest	gutsy	gutta	gutted	gutter	guttered	guttering	gutters	guttersnipe	guttersnipes	guttery	guttier	guttiest	gutting	guttural	gutturally	gutturals	gutty	guy	guyana	guyed	guying	guys	guzzle	guzzled	guzzler	guzzlers	guzzles	guzzling	gweduc	gweduck	gweducks	gweducs	gym	gymkhana	gymkhanas	gymnasia	gymnasium	gymnasiums	gymnast	gymnastic	gymnastically	gymnastics	gymnasts	gymnosperm	gymnosperms	gyms	gynarchy	gynecologic	gynecological	gynecologies	gynecologist	gynecologists	gynecology	gyp	gypped	gypper	gyppers	gypping	gyps	gypsied	gypsies	gypsum	gypsums	gypsy	gypsydom	gypsydoms	gypsying	gypsyish	gypsyism	gypsyisms	gyral	gyrate	gyrated	gyrates	gyrating	gyration	gyrations	gyrator	gyrators	gyratory	gyre	gyred	gyres	gyrfalcon	gyrfalcons	gyring	gyro	gyrocompass	gyrocompasses	gyroidal	gyromagnetic	gyros	gyroscope	gyroscopes	gyroscopic	gyroscopically	gyrose	gyrus	gyve	gyved	gyves	gyving	ha	habanera	habaneras	habeas	haberdasher	haberdasheries	haberdashers	haberdashery	habile	habiliment	habiliments	habilitate	habilitation	habit	habitability	habitable	habitableness	habitably	habitancies	habitancy	habitant	habitants	habitat	habitation	habitations	habitats	habited	habiting	habits	habitual	habituality	habitually	habitualness	habituate	habituated	habituates	habituating	habituation	habituations	habitude	habitue	habitues	hacienda	haciendas	hack	hackamore	hackberry	hackbut	hacked	hackee	hacker	hackers	hackie	hackies	hacking	hackle	hackled	hackler	hacklers	hackles	hacklier	hackling	hackly	hackman	hackmen	hackney	hackneyed	hackneying	hackneys	hacks	hacksaw	hacksaws	hackwork	hackworks	had	haddie	haddock	haddocks	hades	hading	hadj	hadjee	hadjees	hadjes	hadji	hadjis	hadron	hadronic	hadrons	hadst	haematin	haemoglobin	haets	hafnium	hafniums	haft	hafted	hafter	hafting	haftorah	haftorahs	hafts	hag	hagadists	hagborn	hagbuts	hagfish	haggard	haggardly	haggards	hagged	hagging	haggis	haggises	haggish	haggle	haggled	haggler	hagglers	haggles	haggling	hagiographer	hagiographers	hagiography	hagridden	hagride	hagrides	hagriding	hagrode	hags	hague	hah	hahnium	hahs	haiku	hail	hailed	hailer	hailers	hailing	hails	hailstone	hailstones	hailstorm	hailstorms	hair	hairball	hairballs	hairband	hairbands	hairbreadth	hairbreadths	hairbrush	hairbrushes	haircaps	haircloth	haircloths	haircut	haircuts	haircutter	haircutting	hairdo	hairdos	hairdresser	hairdressers	hairdressing	haired	hairier	hairiest	hairiness	hairless	hairlessness	hairlike	hairline	hairlines	hairlock	hairlocks	hairpiece	hairpieces	hairpin	hairpins	hairs	hairsbreadth	hairsbreadths	hairsplitter	hairsplitters	hairsplitting	hairspray	hairsprays	hairspring	hairsprings	hairstreak	hairstyle	hairstyles	hairstyling	hairstylist	hairstylists	hairweaver	hairweavers	hairweaving	hairwork	hairworks	hairworm	hairy	haiti	haitian	haitians	haji	hajis	hajj	hajjes	hajji	hajjis	hake	hakeems	hakes	halavah	halavahs	halberd	halberds	halcyon	halcyons	hale	haled	haleness	haler	halers	hales	halest	half	halfback	halfbacks	halfbeak	halfbeaks	halfhearted	halfheartedly	halfheartedness	halflife	halflives	halfpence	halfpennies	halfpenny	halftime	halftimes	halftone	halftones	halfway	halibut	halibuts	halide	halides	halidom	halidome	halidomes	halidoms	halifax	haling	halite	halitoses	halitosis	hall	hallah	hallelujah	hallelujahs	hallmark	hallmarked	hallmarks	hallo	halloa	halloaing	halloas	halloed	halloes	halloo	hallooed	hallooing	halloos	hallos	hallow	hallowed	halloween	halloweens	hallower	hallowers	hallowing	hallows	halls	hallucinate	hallucinated	hallucinates	hallucinating	hallucination	hallucinational	hallucinations	hallucinative	hallucinatory	hallucinogen	hallucinogenic	hallucinogens	hallucinoses	hallucinosis	hallway	hallways	halo	haloed	haloes	halogen	halogenating	halogenoid	halogenous	halogens	haloids	haloing	halometer	halos	halt	halted	halter	haltered	haltering	halters	halting	haltingly	halts	halva	halvah	halvahs	halvas	halve	halved	halvers	halves	halving	halyard	halyards	ham	hamadryad	hamburg	hamburger	hamburgers	hamburgs	hamilton	hamiltonian	hamlet	hamlets	hammed	hammer	hammered	hammerer	hammerers	hammerhead	hammerheaded	hammerheads	hammering	hammerless	hammerlock	hammerlocks	hammers	hammertoe	hammertoes	hammier	hammiest	hammily	hamming	hammock	hammocks	hammy	hamper	hampered	hamperer	hamperers	hampering	hampers	hampshire	hampshireman	hampshiremen	hampshirite	hampshirites	hams	hamster	hamsters	hamstring	hamstringing	hamstrings	hamstrung	hance	hand	handbag	handbags	handball	handballs	handbarrow	handbarrows	handbill	handbills	handbook	handbooks	handbreadth	handcar	handcars	handcart	handcarts	handclasp	handclasps	handcraft	handcrafted	handcrafting	handcrafts	handcuff	handcuffed	handcuffing	handcuffs	handed	handedly	handedness	handel	handfast	handfasted	handfasts	handful	handfuls	handgrip	handgrips	handgun	handguns	handhold	handholds	handicap	handicapped	handicapper	handicappers	handicapping	handicaps	handicraft	handicrafts	handicraftsman	handicraftsmen	handier	handiest	handily	handiness	handing	handiwork	handkerchief	handkerchiefs	handle	handlebar	handlebars	handled	handler	handlers	handles	handless	handling	handlings	handlists	handloom	handlooms	handmade	handmaid	handmaiden	handmaidens	handmaids	handoff	handoffs	handout	handouts	handpick	handpicked	handpicking	handpicks	handpiece	handrail	handrails	hands	handsaw	handsaws	handsbreadth	handselling	handset	handsets	handsewn	handsful	handshake	handshakes	handshaking	handsome	handsomely	handsomeness	handsomer	handsomest	handspring	handsprings	handstand	handstands	handwheel	handwork	handworks	handwoven	handwrit	handwrite	handwrites	handwriting	handwritings	handwritten	handwrote	handy	handyman	handymen	hang	hangable	hangar	hangared	hangaring	hangars	hangdog	hangdogs	hanged	hanger	hangers	hangfire	hanging	hangings	hangman	hangmen	hangnail	hangnails	hangout	hangouts	hangover	hangovers	hangs	hangtag	hangup	hangups	hank	hanked	hanker	hankered	hankerer	hankerers	hankering	hankerings	hankers	hankie	hankies	hanking	hanks	hanky	hanoi	hansel	hansom	hansoms	hants	hanukkah	hanuman	hanumans	haole	haoles	hap	haphazard	haphazardly	haphazardness	hapless	haplessly	haplessness	haploid	haploids	haploidy	haply	happen	happened	happening	happenings	happens	happenstance	happier	happiest	happily	happiness	happing	happy	haps	harangue	harangued	haranguer	haranguers	harangues	haranguing	harass	harassed	harasser	harassers	harasses	harassing	harassingly	harassment	harassments	harbinger	harbingers	harbor	harborage	harbored	harborer	harborers	harboring	harborless	harbors	harbour	harboured	harbouring	harbours	hard	hardback	hardbacks	hardball	hardballs	hardboard	hardboiled	hardboots	hardbought	hardbound	hardcase	hardcore	hardcover	hardcovers	harden	hardened	hardener	hardeners	hardening	hardens	harder	hardest	hardhacks	hardhanded	hardhandedness	hardhat	hardhats	hardhead	hardheaded	hardheadedly	hardheadedness	hardheads	hardhearted	hardheartedly	hardheartedness	hardier	hardies	hardiest	hardihood	hardily	hardiness	harding	hardly	hardness	hardpan	hardpans	hards	hardset	hardshell	hardship	hardships	hardstand	hardstands	hardtack	hardtacks	hardtop	hardtops	hardware	hardwares	hardwired	hardwood	hardwoods	hardworking	hardy	hare	harebell	harebells	harebrained	hared	hareem	hareems	harelike	harelip	harelipped	harelips	harem	harems	hares	haring	hark	harked	harken	harkened	harkener	harkeners	harkening	harkens	harking	harks	harlem	harlequin	harlequins	harlot	harlotries	harlotry	harlots	harm	harmed	harmer	harmers	harmful	harmfully	harmfulness	harming	harmless	harmlessly	harmlessness	harmonic	harmonica	harmonically	harmonicas	harmonics	harmonies	harmonious	harmoniously	harmoniousness	harmonium	harmoniums	harmonization	harmonizations	harmonize	harmonized	harmonizer	harmonizers	harmonizes	harmonizing	harmony	harms	harness	harnessed	harnesser	harnessers	harnesses	harnessing	harold	harp	harped	harper	harpers	harpies	harping	harpings	harpist	harpists	harpoon	harpooned	harpooner	harpooners	harpooning	harpoons	harps	harpsichord	harpsichordist	harpsichords	harpy	harridan	harridans	harried	harrier	harriers	harries	harriet	harris	harrison	harrow	harrowed	harrower	harrowers	harrowing	harrows	harrumph	harrumphed	harrumphs	harry	harrying	harsh	harshen	harshened	harshening	harshens	harsher	harshest	harshly	harshness	hart	hartebeest	hartford	harts	hartshorn	haruspex	harvard	harvest	harvestable	harvested	harvester	harvesters	harvesting	harvestman	harvests	has	hasenpfeffer	hash	hashed	hasheesh	hasheeshes	hashes	hashhead	hashheads	hashing	hashish	hashishes	hasid	hasidic	hasidim	hasp	hasped	hasping	hasps	hassels	hassle	hassled	hassles	hassling	hassock	hassocks	hast	hasta	haste	hasted	hasteful	hasten	hastened	hastener	hasteners	hastening	hastens	hastes	hastier	hastiest	hastily	hastiness	hasting	hasty	hat	hatable	hatband	hatbands	hatbox	hatboxes	hatch	hatchable	hatchback	hatchbacks	hatcheck	hatched	hatcheling	hatchelled	hatcher	hatcheries	hatchers	hatchery	hatches	hatchet	hatchetlike	hatchets	hatching	hatchings	hatchment	hatchway	hatchways	hate	hateable	hated	hateful	hatefully	hatefulness	hatemonger	hatemongering	hater	haters	hates	hatful	hatfuls	hath	hating	hatless	hatmaker	hatmakers	hatpin	hatpins	hatrack	hatracks	hatred	hatreds	hats	hatsful	hatted	hatter	hatters	hatting	hauberk	hauberks	haugh	haughtier	haughtiest	haughtily	haughtiness	haughty	haul	haulage	hauled	hauler	haulers	haulier	hauling	hauls	haulyard	haulyards	haunch	haunched	haunches	haunt	haunted	haunter	haunters	haunting	hauntingly	haunts	hausfrau	hausfrauen	hausfraus	hautbois	hautboy	hautboys	haute	hauteur	hauteurs	havana	have	haven	havened	havening	havens	haver	havers	haversack	haversacks	haves	having	haviors	haviour	haviours	havoc	havocked	havocker	havockers	havocking	havocs	haw	hawaii	hawaiian	hawaiians	hawed	hawing	hawk	hawkbill	hawkbills	hawked	hawker	hawkers	hawkeye	hawkeys	hawkies	hawking	hawkings	hawkish	hawkmoth	hawkmoths	hawknose	hawknoses	hawks	hawkshaw	hawkshaws	hawkweed	hawkweeds	haws	hawse	hawser	hawsers	hawses	hawthorn	hawthorne	hawthorns	hay	haycock	haycocks	haydn	hayed	hayer	hayers	hayes	hayfields	hayfork	hayforks	haying	hayings	hayloft	haylofts	haymaker	haymakers	haymow	haymows	hayrack	hayracks	hayrick	hayricks	hayride	hayrides	hays	hayseed	hayseeds	haystack	haystacks	hayward	haywards	haywire	haywires	hazard	hazarded	hazarding	hazardless	hazardous	hazardously	hazardousness	hazards	haze	hazed	hazel	hazelnut	hazelnuts	hazels	hazer	hazers	hazes	hazier	haziest	hazily	haziness	hazing	hazings	hazy	hdqrs	he	head	headache	headaches	headachier	headachy	headband	headbands	headboard	headboards	headcheese	headdress	headdresses	headed	header	headers	headfirst	headforemost	headgear	headgears	headhunt	headhunted	headhunter	headhunters	headhunting	headhunts	headier	headiest	headily	headiness	heading	headings	headlamp	headlamps	headland	headlands	headless	headlight	headlights	headline	headlined	headlines	headlining	headlock	headlocks	headlong	headman	headmaster	headmasters	headmen	headmistress	headmistresses	headmost	headnote	headnotes	headphone	headphones	headpiece	headpieces	headpin	headpins	headquarter	headquartered	headquartering	headquarters	headrest	headrests	headroom	headrooms	heads	headset	headsets	headship	headshrinker	headsman	headsmen	headspring	headstall	headstalls	headstand	headstands	headstay	headstone	headstones	headstrong	headwaiter	headwaiters	headwater	headwaters	headway	headways	headwind	headwinds	headword	headwords	headwork	headworks	heady	heal	healable	healed	healer	healers	healing	heals	health	healthful	healthfully	healthfulness	healthier	healthiest	healthily	healthiness	healths	healthy	heap	heaped	heaping	heaps	hear	hearable	heard	hearer	hearers	hearing	hearings	hearken	hearkened	hearkening	hearkens	hears	hearsay	hearsays	hearse	hearsed	hearses	hearsing	heart	heartache	heartaches	heartbeat	heartbeats	heartbreak	heartbreaker	heartbreaking	heartbreaks	heartbroke	heartbroken	heartburn	heartburns	hearted	hearten	heartened	heartening	heartens	heartfelt	hearth	hearths	hearthside	hearthsides	hearthstone	hearthstones	heartier	hearties	heartiest	heartily	heartiness	hearting	heartland	heartlands	heartless	heartlessly	heartlessness	heartrending	hearts	heartsick	heartsickness	heartsore	heartstring	heartstrings	heartthrob	heartthrobs	heartwarming	heartwood	heartworm	heat	heatable	heated	heatedly	heater	heaters	heath	heathen	heathendom	heathenish	heathenism	heathens	heather	heathered	heathers	heathery	heathier	heathiest	heaths	heathy	heating	heatless	heats	heatstroke	heatstrokes	heave	heaved	heaven	heavenlier	heavenly	heavens	heavenward	heaver	heavers	heaves	heavier	heavies	heaviest	heavily	heaviness	heaving	heavy	heavyhearted	heavyheartedness	heavyset	heavyweight	heavyweights	hebephrenia	hebephrenic	hebraic	hebraism	hebraist	hebraists	hebraized	hebraizes	hebraizing	hebrew	hebrews	hecatomb	hecatombs	heck	heckle	heckled	heckler	hecklers	heckles	heckling	hecks	hectare	hectares	hectic	hectical	hectically	hecticly	hectogram	hectograms	hectoliter	hectoliters	hectometer	hectometers	hector	hectored	hectoring	hectors	hedge	hedged	hedgehog	hedgehogs	hedgehop	hedgehopped	hedgehopper	hedgehopping	hedgehops	hedgepig	hedgepigs	hedger	hedgerow	hedgerows	hedgers	hedges	hedgier	hedgiest	hedging	hedgy	hedonic	hedonically	hedonics	hedonism	hedonisms	hedonist	hedonistic	hedonists	hee	heed	heeded	heeder	heeders	heedful	heedfully	heedfulness	heeding	heedless	heedlessly	heedlessness	heeds	heehaw	heehawed	heehawing	heehaws	heel	heelballs	heeled	heeler	heelers	heeling	heelings	heelless	heelpost	heelposts	heels	heeltap	heeltaps	heft	hefted	hefter	hefters	heftier	heftiest	heftily	heftiness	hefting	hefts	hefty	hegemon	hegemonic	hegemonical	hegemonies	hegemony	hegira	hegiras	heifer	heifers	heigh	height	heighten	heightened	heightening	heightens	heighth	heighths	heights	heil	heiled	heiling	heils	heinie	heinies	heinous	heinously	heinousness	heir	heirdom	heirdoms	heired	heiress	heiresses	heiring	heirless	heirloom	heirlooms	heirs	heirship	heirships	heist	heisted	heister	heisters	heisting	heists	hejira	hektare	hektares	held	helen	helical	helices	helicoid	helicoidal	helicoids	helicon	helicons	helicopter	helicopters	helicopts	helio	heliocentric	heliocentrically	heliocentricity	heliograph	heliographs	helios	heliotherapies	heliotherapy	heliotrope	heliotropes	heliotropic	heliotropically	heliotropism	helipad	helipads	heliport	heliports	helistop	helistops	helium	heliums	helix	helixes	hell	hellbent	hellbox	hellboxes	hellcat	hellcats	hellebore	hellebores	helled	hellene	hellenes	hellenic	hellenism	hellenist	hellenistic	hellenists	heller	hellers	hellfire	hellfires	hellgrammite	hellgrammites	hellhole	hellholes	helling	hellion	hellions	hellish	hellishly	hellishness	hello	helloed	helloes	helloing	hellos	hells	helluva	helm	helmed	helmet	helmeted	helmeting	helmets	helming	helmless	helms	helmsman	helmsmen	helot	helotry	helots	help	helpable	helped	helper	helpers	helpful	helpfully	helpfulness	helping	helpings	helpless	helplessly	helplessness	helpmate	helpmates	helpmeet	helpmeets	helps	helsinki	helve	helved	helves	helving	hem	heman	hematic	hematin	hematinic	hematite	hematites	hematologic	hematological	hematologies	hematologist	hematologists	hematology	hematoma	hematomas	hematozoa	heme	hemingway	hemiola	hemiolas	hemiplegic	hemisection	hemisphere	hemispheres	hemispheric	hemispherical	hemistich	hemistichs	hemline	hemlines	hemlock	hemlocks	hemmed	hemmer	hemmers	hemming	hemodialyses	hemodialysis	hemoglobin	hemoglobinic	hemogram	hemokonia	hemolyze	hemophilia	hemophiliac	hemophiliacs	hemophilic	hemorrhage	hemorrhaged	hemorrhages	hemorrhagic	hemorrhaging	hemorrhoid	hemorrhoidal	hemorrhoidectomies	hemorrhoidectomy	hemorrhoids	hemostat	hemostats	hemotoxin	hemp	hempen	hempier	hemps	hempseed	hempseeds	hempweed	hempweeds	hempy	hems	hemstitch	hemstitched	hemstitches	hemstitching	hen	henbane	henbanes	henbit	henbits	hence	henceforth	henceforward	henchman	henchmen	hencoop	hencoops	henhouse	henhouses	henna	hennaed	hennaing	hennas	henneries	hennery	henpeck	henpecked	henpecking	henpecks	henries	henry	henrys	hens	henting	hents	hep	heparin	hepatic	hepatica	hepaticas	hepatics	hepatitis	hepatize	hepatized	hepatizes	hepburn	hepcat	hepcats	heptad	heptads	heptagon	heptagons	heptameter	heptameters	heptanes	heptarch	heptarchs	heptoses	her	herald	heralded	heraldic	heralding	heraldist	heraldists	heraldries	heraldry	heralds	herb	herbaceous	herbage	herbages	herbal	herbalist	herbalists	herbals	herbaria	herbarium	herbariums	herbert	herbicidal	herbicidally	herbicide	herbicides	herbier	herbivore	herbivores	herbivorous	herbivorously	herbless	herbs	herby	herculean	hercules	herculeses	herd	herded	herder	herders	herding	herdman	herdmen	herds	herdsman	herdsmen	herdswoman	herdswomen	here	hereabout	hereafter	hereat	hereby	hereditarily	hereditariness	hereditary	heredities	heredity	hereford	herefords	herein	hereinafter	hereinto	hereof	hereon	heres	heresies	heresy	heretic	heretical	heretically	heretics	hereto	heretofore	heretrix	hereunder	hereunto	hereupon	herewith	heritabilities	heritability	heritable	heritably	heritage	heritages	heritor	heritors	heritrix	herman	hermaphrodism	hermaphrodite	hermaphrodites	hermaphroditic	hermaphroditically	hermaphroditism	hermeneutic	hermeneutical	hermeneutically	hermeneutics	hermes	hermetic	hermetical	hermetically	hermit	hermitage	hermitages	hermitic	hermitry	hermits	hernia	herniae	hernial	hernias	herniate	herniated	herniates	herniating	herniation	herniations	hero	heroes	heroic	heroical	heroically	heroicalness	heroics	heroin	heroine	heroines	heroinism	heroins	heroism	heroisms	heroize	heroized	heroizes	heroizing	heron	herons	heros	herpes	herpeses	herpetic	herpetologic	herpetological	herpetologist	herpetologists	herpetology	herr	herring	herringbone	herringbones	herrings	hers	herself	hershey	hertz	hertzes	hesitance	hesitancies	hesitancy	hesitant	hesitantly	hesitate	hesitated	hesitater	hesitaters	hesitates	hesitating	hesitatingly	hesitation	hesitations	hesitator	hessian	hessians	hest	hetaera	hetaerae	hetaeras	hetaeric	hetero	heterodox	heterodoxies	heterodoxy	heteroerotic	heterogeneity	heterogeneous	heterogeneously	heterogeneousness	heterogenous	heteronomous	heteronomy	heteronymous	heterophile	heteros	heteroses	heterosexual	heterosexuality	heterosexually	heterosexuals	heterosis	heterotic	heuristic	heuristics	hew	hewable	hewed	hewer	hewers	hewing	hewn	hews	hex	hexad	hexadecimal	hexads	hexagon	hexagonal	hexagons	hexagram	hexagrams	hexahedra	hexahedral	hexahedron	hexahedrons	hexameter	hexameters	hexane	hexaploid	hexapod	hexapodies	hexapods	hexapody	hexarchies	hexed	hexer	hexers	hexes	hexing	hexone	hexose	hexyl	hexylresorcinol	hexyls	hey	heyday	heydays	heydey	heydeys	hi	hiatal	hiatus	hiatuses	hibachi	hibachis	hibernal	hibernate	hibernated	hibernates	hibernating	hibernation	hibernator	hibernators	hibiscus	hibiscuses	hic	hiccough	hiccoughed	hiccoughs	hiccup	hiccuped	hiccuping	hiccupped	hiccupping	hiccups	hick	hickey	hickeys	hickories	hickory	hicks	hid	hidable	hidalgo	hidalgos	hidden	hiddenly	hide	hideaway	hideaways	hidebound	hided	hideless	hideous	hideously	hideousness	hideout	hideouts	hider	hiders	hides	hiding	hidings	hie	hied	hieing	hierarch	hierarchal	hierarchial	hierarchic	hierarchical	hierarchically	hierarchies	hierarchism	hierarchs	hierarchy	hieratic	hieratically	hieroglyphic	hieroglyphics	hierophant	hierophants	hies	higgle	high	highball	highballed	highballs	highbinder	highboard	highborn	highboy	highboys	highbred	highbrow	highbrows	higher	highest	highfalutin	highhanded	highhandedly	highhandedness	highhatting	highjack	highjacked	highjacks	highland	highlander	highlanders	highlands	highlight	highlighted	highlighting	highlights	highly	highness	highnesses	highroad	highroads	highs	highschool	hight	hightail	hightailed	hightailing	hightails	highted	highth	highths	highting	hights	highway	highwayman	highwaymen	highways	hijack	hijacked	hijacker	hijackers	hijacking	hijacks	hijinks	hike	hiked	hiker	hikers	hikes	hiking	hilarious	hilariously	hilariousness	hilarities	hilarity	hill	hillbillies	hillbilly	hilled	hiller	hillers	hillier	hilliest	hilliness	hilling	hillock	hillocks	hillocky	hills	hillside	hillsides	hilltop	hilltops	hilly	hilt	hilted	hilting	hiltless	hilts	him	himalayan	himalayas	himself	hind	hindbrain	hinder	hinderance	hindered	hinderer	hinderers	hindering	hindermost	hinders	hindgut	hindguts	hindi	hindmost	hindquarter	hindquarters	hindrance	hindrances	hinds	hindsight	hindu	hinduism	hindus	hindustan	hindustani	hinge	hinged	hingeless	hinger	hingers	hinges	hinging	hinnied	hinnies	hinny	hint	hinted	hinter	hinterland	hinterlands	hinters	hinting	hints	hip	hipbone	hipbones	hiphuggers	hipless	hipline	hipness	hipnesses	hipparchs	hipped	hipper	hippest	hippie	hippiedom	hippier	hippies	hipping	hippish	hippo	hippocampus	hippocrates	hippocratic	hippocratism	hippodrome	hippodromes	hippopotami	hippopotamus	hippopotamuses	hippos	hippy	hips	hipshot	hipster	hipsters	hirable	hiragana	hiraganas	hire	hireable	hired	hireling	hirelings	hirer	hirers	hires	hiring	hiroshima	hirsute	hirsuteness	hirsutism	his	hisn	hispanic	hispanics	hispaniola	hispano	hispid	hiss	hissed	hisself	hisser	hissers	hisses	hissing	hissings	hist	histamin	histamine	histamines	histaminic	histamins	histed	histing	histogram	histograms	histologist	histologists	histology	histolysis	histolytic	historian	historians	historic	historical	historically	historicity	histories	historiographer	historiographers	historiography	history	histrionic	histrionically	histrionics	hists	hit	hitch	hitched	hitcher	hitchers	hitches	hitchhike	hitchhiked	hitchhiker	hitchhikers	hitchhikes	hitchhiking	hitching	hither	hitherto	hitler	hitlerism	hitless	hits	hitter	hitters	hitting	hive	hived	hives	hiving	ho	hoagie	hoagies	hoagy	hoar	hoard	hoarded	hoarder	hoarders	hoarding	hoardings	hoards	hoarfrost	hoarfrosts	hoarier	hoariest	hoarily	hoariness	hoarse	hoarsely	hoarsen	hoarsened	hoarseness	hoarsening	hoarsens	hoarser	hoarsest	hoary	hoatzin	hoatzins	hoax	hoaxed	hoaxer	hoaxers	hoaxes	hoaxing	hob	hobbesian	hobbies	hobbit	hobble	hobbled	hobbledehoy	hobbledehoys	hobbler	hobblers	hobbles	hobbling	hobby	hobbyhorse	hobbyhorses	hobbyist	hobbyists	hobgoblin	hobgoblins	hobnail	hobnailed	hobnails	hobnob	hobnobbed	hobnobbing	hobnobs	hobo	hoboed	hoboes	hoboing	hoboism	hoboisms	hobos	hobs	hoc	hock	hocked	hocker	hockers	hockey	hockeys	hocking	hocks	hockshop	hockshops	hocus	hocused	hocuses	hocusing	hocussed	hocusses	hocussing	hod	hodad	hodaddy	hodads	hodgepodge	hodgepodges	hods	hoe	hoecake	hoecakes	hoed	hoedown	hoedowns	hoeing	hoer	hoers	hoes	hog	hogan	hogans	hogback	hogbacks	hogfish	hogfishes	hogged	hogger	hoggers	hogging	hoggish	hoggishly	hoggs	hognose	hognoses	hognut	hognuts	hogs	hogshead	hogsheads	hogtie	hogtied	hogtieing	hogties	hogtying	hogwash	hogwashes	hogweed	hogweeds	hoi	hoise	hoist	hoisted	hoister	hoisters	hoisting	hoists	hoke	hokey	hokier	hokiest	hoking	hokum	hokums	hokypokies	hokypoky	hold	holdable	holdall	holdalls	holdback	holdbacks	holden	holder	holders	holdfast	holdfasts	holding	holdings	holdout	holdouts	holdover	holdovers	holds	holdup	holdups	hole	holed	holeless	holeproof	holer	holes	holey	holiday	holidayed	holidaying	holidays	holier	holies	holiest	holily	holiness	holing	holism	holisms	holist	holistic	holistically	holists	holland	hollandaise	hollander	hollanders	hollands	holler	hollered	hollering	hollers	hollies	hollo	holloaing	hollooing	hollow	hollowed	hollower	hollowest	hollowing	hollowly	hollowness	hollows	hollowware	holly	hollyhock	hollyhocks	hollywood	holmes	holmium	holmiums	holocaust	holocausts	holocene	holocrine	hologram	holograms	holograph	holographic	holographies	holographs	holography	holotypes	holstein	holsteins	holster	holstered	holsters	holt	holts	holy	holyday	holydays	holystone	holystones	holytide	homage	homaged	homager	homagers	homages	homaging	hombre	hombres	homburg	homburgs	home	homebodies	homebody	homebound	homebred	homebreds	homebuilders	homebuilding	homecoming	homecomings	homed	homefolk	homegrown	homeland	homelands	homeless	homelier	homeliest	homelike	homeliness	homely	homemade	homemaker	homemakers	homemaking	homeomorphous	homeopath	homeopathic	homeopathically	homeopathies	homeopathy	homeostases	homeostasis	homeostatic	homeowner	homeowners	homer	homeric	homering	homeroom	homerooms	homers	homes	homesick	homesickness	homesite	homespun	homespuns	homestead	homesteader	homesteaders	homesteads	homestretch	homestretches	hometown	hometowns	homeward	homework	homeworker	homeworks	homey	homeyness	homicidal	homicidally	homicide	homicides	homier	homiest	homiletic	homiletics	homilies	homilist	homilists	homily	hominem	hominess	homing	hominid	hominidae	hominids	hominies	hominized	hominoid	hominoids	hominy	homo	homocentric	homoerotic	homoeroticism	homoerotism	homogeneity	homogeneous	homogeneously	homogeneousness	homogenization	homogenize	homogenized	homogenizer	homogenizers	homogenizes	homogenizing	homograph	homographic	homographs	homolog	homologies	homologous	homologue	homology	homonym	homonymic	homonymies	homonyms	homonymy	homophile	homophiles	homophone	homophones	homos	homosexual	homosexuality	homosexually	homosexuals	homotype	homunculi	homy	hon	honan	honcho	honchos	honda	hondas	honduran	hondurans	honduras	hone	honed	honer	honers	hones	honest	honester	honestest	honesties	honestly	honestness	honesty	honeworts	honey	honeybee	honeybees	honeybun	honeybuns	honeycomb	honeycombed	honeycombs	honeydew	honeydews	honeyed	honeyful	honeying	honeymoon	honeymooned	honeymooner	honeymooners	honeymooning	honeymoons	honeys	honeysuckle	honeysuckles	hongkong	honied	honing	honk	honked	honker	honkers	honkey	honkeys	honkie	honkies	honking	honks	honky	honkytonks	honolulu	honor	honorable	honorableness	honorables	honorably	honorands	honoraria	honoraries	honorarily	honorarium	honorariums	honorary	honored	honoree	honorees	honorer	honorers	honorific	honorifically	honorifics	honoring	honorless	honors	honour	honoured	honourer	honourers	honouring	honours	hooch	hooches	hood	hooded	hooding	hoodless	hoodlum	hoodlums	hoodoo	hoodooed	hoodooing	hoodoos	hoods	hoodwink	hoodwinked	hoodwinking	hoodwinks	hooey	hooeys	hoof	hoofbeat	hoofbeats	hoofbound	hoofed	hoofer	hoofers	hoofing	hoofless	hoofmarks	hoofs	hook	hooka	hookah	hookahs	hookas	hooked	hookedness	hooker	hookers	hookey	hookeys	hookier	hookies	hooking	hookless	hooklets	hooknose	hooknoses	hooks	hookup	hookups	hookworm	hookworms	hooky	hooligan	hooliganism	hooligans	hoop	hooped	hooper	hoopers	hooping	hoopla	hooplas	hoopless	hoops	hoopster	hoopsters	hoorah	hoorahed	hoorahing	hoorahs	hooray	hoorayed	hooraying	hoorays	hoosegow	hoosegows	hoosgow	hoosgows	hoosier	hoosiers	hoot	hootch	hootches	hooted	hootenannies	hootenanny	hooter	hooters	hooting	hoots	hoover	hooves	hop	hope	hoped	hopeful	hopefully	hopefulness	hopefuls	hopeless	hopelessly	hopelessness	hoper	hopers	hopes	hophead	hopheads	hopi	hoping	hopis	hoplite	hopped	hopper	hoppers	hopping	hops	hopsack	hopsacking	hopsacks	hopscotch	hoptoad	hoptoads	hor	hora	horace	horah	horal	horary	horas	horde	horded	hordes	hording	horehound	horehounds	horizon	horizons	horizontal	horizontally	hormonal	hormonally	hormone	hormones	hormonic	horn	hornbeam	hornbill	hornbills	hornbook	hornbooks	horned	horner	hornet	hornets	hornier	horniest	hornily	horning	hornless	hornlike	hornpipe	hornpipes	horns	hornswoggle	hornswoggled	hornswoggling	horny	horologe	horologes	horological	horologies	horologist	horologists	horology	horoscope	horoscopes	horrendous	horrendously	horrible	horribleness	horribles	horribly	horrid	horridly	horridness	horrific	horrified	horrifies	horrify	horrifying	horripilation	horror	horrors	hors	horse	horseback	horsecar	horsed	horsefeathers	horseflesh	horseflies	horsefly	horsehair	horsehide	horsehides	horselaugh	horselaughs	horseless	horseman	horsemanship	horsemen	horseplay	horseplayer	horseplayers	horsepower	horsepowers	horsepox	horseradish	horseradishes	horses	horseshoe	horseshoer	horseshoers	horseshoes	horsetail	horsetails	horsewhip	horsewhipped	horsewhipping	horsewhips	horsewoman	horsewomen	horsey	horsier	horsiest	horsily	horsing	horst	horsy	hortative	hortatory	horticultural	horticulture	horticulturist	horticulturists	hosanna	hosannaed	hosannas	hose	hosed	hoses	hosier	hosieries	hosiers	hosiery	hosing	hosp	hospice	hospices	hospitable	hospitableness	hospitably	hospital	hospitalism	hospitalities	hospitality	hospitalization	hospitalizations	hospitalize	hospitalized	hospitalizes	hospitalizing	hospitals	hospitium	host	hostage	hostages	hosted	hostel	hosteled	hosteler	hostelers	hosteling	hostelries	hostelry	hostels	hostess	hostessed	hostesses	hostessing	hostile	hostilely	hostiles	hostilities	hostility	hosting	hostler	hostlers	hostly	hosts	hot	hotbed	hotbeds	hotblood	hotblooded	hotbox	hotboxes	hotcake	hotcakes	hotchpotch	hotdog	hotdogged	hotdogging	hotdogs	hotel	hotelier	hoteliers	hotelkeeper	hotelman	hotelmen	hotels	hotfoot	hotfooted	hotfooting	hotfoots	hothead	hotheaded	hotheadedly	hotheadedness	hotheads	hothouse	hothouses	hotkey	hotline	hotly	hotness	hotnesses	hotrod	hotrods	hots	hotshot	hotshots	hotspur	hotspurs	hotted	hotter	hottest	hotting	hottish	hotzone	hound	hounded	hounder	hounders	hounding	hounds	hour	hourglass	hourglasses	houri	houris	hourly	hours	house	houseboat	houseboats	houseboy	houseboys	housebreak	housebreaker	housebreakers	housebreaking	housebroken	houseclean	housecleaned	housecleaning	housecleans	housecoat	housecoats	housed	houseflies	housefly	houseful	housefuls	household	householder	householders	households	househusband	househusbands	housekeeper	housekeepers	housekeeping	houseless	houselights	housemaid	housemaids	houseman	housemaster	housemen	housemother	housemothers	housepaint	houser	housers	houses	housesat	housesit	housesits	housesitting	housetop	housetops	housewares	housewarming	housewarmings	housewife	housewifeliness	housewifely	housewifery	housewives	housework	houseworker	houseworkers	housing	housings	houston	hove	hovel	hovelling	hovels	hover	hovercraft	hovercrafts	hovered	hoverer	hoverers	hovering	hovers	how	howbeit	howdah	howdahs	howdie	howdies	howdy	howe	howes	however	howitzer	howitzers	howl	howled	howler	howlers	howlet	howling	howls	hows	howsabout	howsoever	hoyden	hoydening	hoydens	hoyle	hoyles	hp	hr	hrs	hts	huarache	huaraches	hub	hubbies	hubbub	hubbubs	hubby	hubcap	hubcaps	hubris	hubrises	hubs	huck	huckleberries	huckleberry	hucks	huckster	huckstered	huckstering	hucksters	huddle	huddled	huddler	huddlers	huddles	huddling	hudson	hue	hued	hueless	hues	huff	huffed	huffier	huffiest	huffily	huffiness	huffing	huffish	huffs	huffy	hug	huge	hugely	hugeness	huger	hugest	huggable	hugged	hugger	huggermugger	huggers	hugging	hugs	huguenot	huguenots	huh	hula	hulas	hulk	hulked	hulkier	hulking	hulks	hulky	hull	hullabaloo	hulled	huller	hullers	hulling	hullo	hulloaed	hulloaing	hulloed	hulloes	hulloing	hullos	hulls	hum	human	humane	humanely	humaneness	humaner	humanest	humanism	humanisms	humanist	humanistic	humanistically	humanists	humanitarian	humanitarianism	humanitarians	humanities	humanity	humanization	humanize	humanized	humanizer	humanizers	humanizes	humanizing	humankind	humanly	humanness	humanoid	humanoids	humans	humble	humbled	humbleness	humbler	humblers	humbles	humblest	humbling	humbly	humbug	humbugged	humbugger	humbuggers	humbugging	humbugs	humdinger	humdingers	humdrum	humdrums	humectant	humeral	humeri	humerus	humid	humidfied	humidfies	humidification	humidified	humidifier	humidifiers	humidifies	humidify	humidifying	humidistat	humidities	humidity	humidly	humidor	humidors	humiliate	humiliated	humiliates	humiliating	humiliatingly	humiliation	humiliations	humilities	humility	hummable	hummed	hummer	hummers	humming	hummingbird	hummingbirds	hummock	hummocks	hummocky	humongous	humor	humoral	humored	humorer	humorers	humorful	humoring	humorist	humorists	humorless	humorlessly	humorlessness	humorous	humorously	humorousness	humors	humour	humoured	humouring	humours	hump	humpback	humpbacked	humpbacks	humped	humph	humphed	humphing	humphs	humpier	humping	humps	humpy	hums	humus	humuses	hun	hunch	hunchback	hunchbacked	hunchbacks	hunched	hunches	hunching	hundred	hundredfold	hundreds	hundredth	hundredths	hundredweight	hundredweights	hung	hungarian	hungarians	hungary	hunger	hungered	hungering	hungerless	hungers	hungrier	hungriest	hungrily	hungry	hunk	hunker	hunkered	hunkering	hunkers	hunks	hunky	hunnish	hunnishness	huns	hunt	huntable	hunted	huntedly	hunter	hunters	hunting	huntings	huntley	huntress	huntresses	hunts	huntsman	huntsmen	hup	hurdle	hurdled	hurdler	hurdlers	hurdles	hurdling	hurl	hurled	hurler	hurlers	hurling	hurlings	hurls	hurly	huron	hurrah	hurrahed	hurrahing	hurrahs	hurray	hurrayed	hurraying	hurrays	hurricane	hurricanes	hurried	hurriedly	hurriedness	hurrier	hurriers	hurries	hurry	hurrying	hurt	hurter	hurters	hurtful	hurting	hurtle	hurtled	hurtles	hurtless	hurtling	hurts	husband	husbanded	husbander	husbanding	husbandlike	husbandly	husbandman	husbandmen	husbandry	husbands	hush	hushaby	hushed	hushedly	hushes	hushful	hushing	husk	husked	husker	huskers	huskier	huskies	huskiest	huskily	huskiness	husking	huskings	husks	husky	hussar	hussars	hussies	hussy	hustings	hustle	hustled	hustler	hustlers	hustles	hustling	hut	hutch	hutched	hutches	hutching	hutment	hutments	huts	hutted	hutting	hutzpa	hutzpah	hutzpahs	hutzpas	huzza	huzzaed	huzzah	huzzahed	huzzahing	huzzahs	huzzaing	huzzas	hwy	hyacinth	hyacinthine	hyacinths	hyaena	hyaenas	hyaenic	hybrid	hybridism	hybridization	hybridizations	hybridize	hybridized	hybridizer	hybridizers	hybridizes	hybridizing	hybrids	hyde	hydra	hydrae	hydrangea	hydrangeas	hydrant	hydrants	hydrargyrum	hydras	hydrate	hydrated	hydrates	hydrating	hydration	hydrations	hydrator	hydrators	hydraulic	hydraulically	hydraulics	hydric	hydride	hydrides	hydro	hydrocarbon	hydrocarbons	hydrocephali	hydrocephalic	hydrocephalies	hydrocephaloid	hydrocephalus	hydrocephaly	hydrochloric	hydrochloride	hydrodynamic	hydrodynamics	hydroelectric	hydroelectricity	hydrofluoric	hydrofoil	hydrofoils	hydrogen	hydrogenate	hydrogenated	hydrogenates	hydrogenating	hydrogenation	hydrogenations	hydrogenous	hydrogens	hydrographer	hydrographers	hydrographic	hydrography	hydrologic	hydrological	hydrologist	hydrologists	hydrology	hydrolyses	hydrolysis	hydrolytic	hydrolyze	hydromassage	hydrometer	hydrometers	hydropathically	hydrophobia	hydrophobic	hydrophobicity	hydrophone	hydrophones	hydroplane	hydroplanes	hydroponic	hydroponics	hydropower	hydros	hydrosphere	hydrospheres	hydrostatic	hydrostatical	hydrostatics	hydrotherapeutic	hydrotherapeutical	hydrotherapeutically	hydrotherapeutician	hydrotherapeuticians	hydrotherapeutics	hydrotherapies	hydrotherapist	hydrotherapy	hydrothermal	hydrothermally	hydrotropism	hydrous	hydroxide	hydroxides	hydroxy	hydrozoan	hydrozoon	hyena	hyenas	hygeist	hygieists	hygiene	hygienes	hygienic	hygienical	hygienically	hygienics	hygienist	hygienists	hygrometer	hygrometers	hygrometries	hygrometry	hygroscope	hygroscopic	hying	hymen	hymenal	hymeneal	hymenoptera	hymenopteran	hymenopteron	hymenopterous	hymens	hymn	hymnal	hymnals	hymnaries	hymnary	hymnbook	hymnbooks	hymned	hymning	hymnist	hymnists	hymnodies	hymnody	hymns	hyoglossi	hype	hyped	hyper	hyperacid	hyperacidity	hyperactive	hyperactivities	hyperactivity	hyperbaric	hyperbarically	hyperbola	hyperbolas	hyperbole	hyperboles	hyperbolic	hyperbolically	hyperborean	hypercritical	hypercritically	hyperexcitable	hyperextension	hyperglycemia	hyperglycemic	hypericum	hyperinflation	hyperion	hyperirritable	hyperkinesia	hyperkinesis	hyperkinetic	hyperons	hyperopia	hyperopic	hyperpituitary	hypersensitive	hypersensitiveness	hypersensitivities	hypersensitivity	hypersensitize	hypersensitized	hypersensitizing	hypersexual	hypersexualities	hypersexuality	hypersonic	hypertension	hypertensive	hyperthyroid	hyperthyroidism	hyperthyroids	hypertonicity	hypertrophic	hypertrophied	hypertrophies	hypertrophy	hypertrophying	hyperventilation	hypes	hyphen	hyphenate	hyphenated	hyphenates	hyphenating	hyphenation	hyphenations	hyphened	hyphening	hyphens	hyping	hypnic	hypnoanalyses	hypnoanalysis	hypnogogic	hypnoid	hypnoidal	hypnology	hypnophobia	hypnophobias	hypnoses	hypnosis	hypnotherapy	hypnotic	hypnotically	hypnotics	hypnotism	hypnotist	hypnotists	hypnotizable	hypnotize	hypnotized	hypnotizes	hypnotizing	hypo	hypocenter	hypocenters	hypochondria	hypochondriac	hypochondriacal	hypochondriacs	hypochondriasis	hypocrisies	hypocrisy	hypocrite	hypocrites	hypocritic	hypocritical	hypocritically	hypoderm	hypodermatically	hypodermic	hypodermically	hypodermics	hypoed	hypoergic	hypoglycemia	hypoglycemic	hypoing	hypos	hyposensitive	hyposensitivity	hyposensitize	hyposensitized	hyposensitizing	hypotension	hypotensive	hypotenuse	hypotenuses	hypothecate	hypothecated	hypothecates	hypothecating	hypothermal	hypothermia	hypothermic	hypotheses	hypothesi	hypothesis	hypothesist	hypothesists	hypothesize	hypothesized	hypothesizer	hypothesizers	hypothesizes	hypothesizing	hypothetical	hypothetically	hypothyroid	hypothyroidism	hypothyroids	hypotonic	hypotrophies	hypoxemia	hypoxemic	hypoxia	hypoxic	hyrax	hyraxes	hyson	hysons	hyssop	hyssops	hysterectomies	hysterectomize	hysterectomized	hysterectomizes	hysterectomizing	hysterectomy	hysteria	hysterias	hysteric	hysterical	hysterically	hysterics	hystericus	i'm	iamb	iambi	iambic	iambics	iambs	iambus	iambuses	iatrogenic	iberia	iberian	iberians	ibex	ibexes	ibices	ibid	ibidem	ibis	ibises	ibm	ic	icbm	ice	iceberg	icebergs	iceboat	iceboats	icebound	icebox	iceboxes	icebreaker	icebreakers	icecap	icecaps	iced	icefall	icefalls	icehouse	icehouses	iceland	icelander	icelanders	icelandic	iceless	iceman	icemen	ices	ichor	ichorous	ichors	ichthyic	ichthyism	ichthyisms	ichthyoid	ichthyologist	ichthyologists	ichthyology	ichthyophagous	ichthyosiform	icicle	icicled	icicles	icier	iciest	icily	iciness	icinesses	icing	icings	icker	ickier	ickiest	icky	icon	iconic	iconical	iconoclasm	iconoclast	iconoclastic	iconoclasts	icons	ictus	ictuses	icy	id	idaho	idahoan	idahoans	idea	ideal	idealism	idealisms	idealist	idealistic	idealistically	idealists	idealities	ideality	idealization	idealizations	idealize	idealized	idealizes	idealizing	ideally	idealogies	idealogue	idealogy	ideals	ideas	ideate	ideated	ideates	ideation	ideational	ideations	idee	idem	identical	identically	identicalness	identifer	identifers	identifiability	identifiable	identifiably	identification	identifications	identified	identifier	identifiers	identifies	identify	identifying	identities	identity	ideo	ideogenetic	ideogram	ideograms	ideograph	ideographs	ideokinetic	ideologic	ideological	ideologically	ideologies	ideologist	ideologize	ideologized	ideologizing	ideologue	ideology	ideomotor	ides	idiocies	idiocratic	idiocy	idiogram	idiom	idiomatic	idiomatically	idioms	idiopathic	idiopathy	idiosyncracies	idiosyncracy	idiosyncrasies	idiosyncrasy	idiosyncratic	idiot	idiotic	idiotical	idiotically	idiotisms	idiots	idle	idled	idleness	idler	idlers	idles	idlesses	idlest	idling	idly	idol	idolater	idolaters	idolatries	idolatrous	idolatry	idolise	idolised	idoliser	idolises	idolism	idolisms	idolization	idolize	idolized	idolizer	idolizers	idolizes	idolizing	idols	ids	idyl	idylist	idylists	idyll	idyllic	idyllist	idyllists	idylls	idyls	ie	ieee	if	iffier	iffiest	iffiness	iffy	ifs	igloo	igloos	igneous	ignified	ignifies	ignifying	ignis	ignitable	ignite	ignited	igniter	igniters	ignites	ignitible	igniting	ignition	ignitions	ignitors	ignobility	ignoble	ignobly	ignominies	ignominious	ignominiously	ignominy	ignoramus	ignoramuses	ignorance	ignorant	ignorantly	ignorantness	ignore	ignored	ignorer	ignorers	ignores	ignoring	iguana	iguanas	iguanians	ii	iii	ikebana	ikebanas	ikon	ikons	ileal	ileitis	ileum	ilia	iliad	iliads	ilium	ilk	ilks	ill	illegal	illegalities	illegality	illegalization	illegalize	illegalized	illegalizing	illegally	illegibility	illegible	illegibly	illegitimacies	illegitimacy	illegitimate	illegitimated	illegitimately	illegitimating	illegitimation	iller	illest	illiberal	illicit	illicitly	illicitness	illimitable	illimitably	illinois	illinoisan	illiteracies	illiteracy	illiterate	illiterately	illiterateness	illiterates	illness	illnesses	illogic	illogical	illogicality	illogically	illogics	ills	illume	illumed	illumes	illuminable	illuminance	illuminate	illuminated	illuminates	illuminating	illuminatingly	illumination	illuminations	illuminative	illuminator	illuminators	illumine	illumined	illumines	illuming	illumining	illuminist	illusion	illusional	illusionary	illusionism	illusionist	illusionists	illusions	illusive	illusiveness	illusory	illustrate	illustrated	illustrates	illustrating	illustration	illustrations	illustrative	illustratively	illustrator	illustrators	illustrious	illustriously	illustriousness	illy	image	imaged	imageries	imagery	images	imaginable	imaginably	imaginal	imaginarily	imaginary	imagination	imaginations	imaginative	imaginatively	imagine	imagined	imaginer	imaginers	imagines	imaging	imagining	imaginings	imagism	imagisms	imagist	imagists	imago	imagoes	imam	imamates	imams	imaums	imbalance	imbalances	imbalm	imbalmed	imbalmer	imbalmers	imbalming	imbark	imbarked	imbecile	imbeciles	imbecilic	imbecilities	imbecility	imbed	imbedded	imbedding	imbeds	imbibe	imbibed	imbiber	imbibers	imbibes	imbibing	imbibition	imbibitional	imbibitions	imbody	imbricate	imbrication	imbrications	imbrium	imbroglio	imbroglios	imbrue	imbrued	imbrues	imbruing	imbue	imbued	imbues	imbuing	imburse	imitable	imitate	imitated	imitatee	imitates	imitating	imitation	imitational	imitations	imitative	imitatively	imitativeness	imitator	imitators	immaculacy	immaculate	immaculately	immaculateness	immanence	immanency	immanent	immanently	immaterial	immaterialities	immateriality	immaterially	immaterialness	immature	immaturely	immatures	immaturities	immaturity	immeasurable	immeasurably	immediacies	immediacy	immediate	immediately	immediateness	immedicable	immemorial	immemorially	immense	immensely	immenser	immensest	immensities	immensity	immerge	immerse	immersed	immerses	immersing	immersion	immersions	immesh	immeshing	immies	immigrant	immigrants	immigrate	immigrated	immigrates	immigrating	immigration	immigrations	imminence	imminent	imminently	immiscibility	immiscible	immitigable	immix	immixed	immixes	immixing	immobile	immobilities	immobility	immobilization	immobilize	immobilized	immobilizer	immobilizes	immobilizing	immoderacy	immoderate	immoderately	immoderateness	immoderation	immodest	immodestly	immodesty	immolate	immolated	immolates	immolating	immolation	immolations	immoral	immoralities	immorality	immorally	immortal	immortalities	immortality	immortalize	immortalized	immortalizes	immortalizing	immortally	immortals	immotile	immotility	immovability	immovable	immovably	immoveable	immune	immunes	immunities	immunity	immunization	immunizations	immunize	immunized	immunizes	immunizing	immunochemistry	immunogen	immunogenetics	immunoglobulin	immunologic	immunological	immunologically	immunologies	immunologist	immunologists	immunology	immunopathology	immunoreactive	immunosuppressant	immunosuppressants	immunosuppressive	immunotherapies	immunotherapy	immure	immured	immures	immuring	immutability	immutable	immutableness	immutably	imp	impact	impacted	impacter	impacters	impacting	impaction	impactor	impactors	impacts	impainted	impair	impaired	impairer	impairers	impairing	impairment	impairments	impairs	impala	impalas	impale	impaled	impalement	impalements	impaler	impalers	impales	impaling	impalpability	impalpable	impalpably	impanel	impaneled	impaneling	impanelled	impanelling	impanels	imparity	impart	imparted	imparter	imparters	impartial	impartiality	impartially	impartialness	impartible	impartibly	imparting	imparts	impassability	impassable	impasse	impasses	impassibility	impassible	impassibly	impassion	impassionate	impassioned	impassioning	impassive	impassively	impassiveness	impassivity	impasto	impatience	impatiens	impatient	impatiently	impeach	impeachable	impeached	impeacher	impeachers	impeaches	impeaching	impeachment	impeachments	impearl	impearled	impearling	impearls	impeccability	impeccable	impeccably	impecuniosity	impecunious	impecuniously	impecuniousness	imped	impedance	impedances	impede	impeded	impeder	impeders	impedes	impedient	impediment	impedimenta	impediments	impeding	impel	impelled	impeller	impellers	impelling	impellor	impellors	impels	impend	impended	impending	impends	impenetrability	impenetrable	impenetrableness	impenetrably	impenitence	impenitent	impenitently	imper	imperative	imperatively	imperatives	imperceivable	imperceptibility	imperceptible	imperceptibleness	imperceptibly	imperception	imperceptive	imperceptiveness	impercipient	imperfect	imperfectability	imperfection	imperfections	imperfectly	imperfectness	imperfects	imperforate	imperforates	imperia	imperial	imperialism	imperialist	imperialistic	imperialists	imperially	imperialness	imperials	imperii	imperil	imperiled	imperiling	imperilled	imperilling	imperilment	imperilments	imperils	imperious	imperiously	imperiousness	imperishable	imperishably	imperium	imperiums	impermanence	impermanent	impermanently	impermeabilities	impermeability	impermeable	impermeably	impermissible	impersonal	impersonality	impersonalize	impersonalized	impersonally	impersonate	impersonated	impersonates	impersonating	impersonation	impersonations	impersonator	impersonators	impertinence	impertinences	impertinencies	impertinency	impertinent	impertinently	imperturbability	imperturbable	imperturbably	impervious	imperviously	imperviousness	impetigo	impetigos	impetuosity	impetuous	impetuously	impetuousness	impetus	impetuses	impieties	impiety	imping	impinge	impinged	impingement	impingements	impinger	impingers	impinges	impinging	impings	impious	impiously	impiousness	impish	impishly	impishness	implacability	implacable	implacably	implacentalia	implant	implantation	implanted	implanter	implanting	implants	implausibility	implausible	implausibleness	implausibly	implement	implementable	implementation	implementations	implemented	implementing	implementor	implementors	implements	implicate	implicated	implicates	implicating	implication	implications	implicit	implicitly	implicitness	implied	impliedly	implies	implode	imploded	implodes	imploding	imploration	implorations	implore	implored	implorer	implorers	implores	imploring	imploringly	implosion	implosions	implosive	imply	implying	impolite	impolitely	impoliteness	impolitic	impolitical	impolitically	impoliticly	imponderability	imponderable	imponderableness	imponderables	imponderably	import	importable	importance	important	importantly	importation	importations	imported	importer	importers	importing	imports	importunate	importunately	importunateness	importune	importuned	importunes	importuning	importunities	importunity	impose	imposed	imposer	imposers	imposes	imposing	imposingly	imposition	impositions	impossibilities	impossibility	impossible	impossibleness	impossibly	impost	imposted	imposter	imposters	imposting	impostor	impostors	imposts	imposture	impostures	impotence	impotences	impotencies	impotency	impotent	impotently	impotents	impound	impoundable	impounded	impounding	impoundment	impoundments	impounds	impoverish	impoverished	impoverisher	impoverishes	impoverishing	impoverishment	impowers	impracticability	impracticable	impractical	impracticalities	impracticality	imprecate	imprecated	imprecates	imprecating	imprecation	imprecations	imprecator	imprecators	imprecise	imprecisely	impreciseness	imprecision	imprecisions	impregnability	impregnable	impregnably	impregnate	impregnated	impregnates	impregnating	impregnation	impregnations	impresario	impresarios	impress	impressed	impresser	impressers	impresses	impressibility	impressible	impressing	impression	impressionable	impressionably	impressionis	impressionism	impressionist	impressionistic	impressionists	impressions	impressive	impressively	impressiveness	impressment	impressments	imprest	imprests	imprimatur	imprimaturs	imprimis	imprint	imprinted	imprinter	imprinters	imprinting	imprints	imprison	imprisoned	imprisoning	imprisonment	imprisonments	imprisons	improbabilities	improbability	improbable	improbably	impromptu	improper	improperly	improperness	improprieties	impropriety	improvability	improvable	improve	improved	improvement	improvements	improver	improvers	improves	improvidence	improvident	improvidently	improving	improvisation	improvisational	improvisations	improvise	improvised	improviser	improvisers	improvises	improvising	improvisor	improvisors	imprudence	imprudent	imprudently	imps	impudence	impudent	impudently	impugn	impugnable	impugned	impugner	impugners	impugning	impugnment	impugns	impuissance	impulse	impulsed	impulses	impulsing	impulsion	impulsions	impulsive	impulsively	impulsiveness	impunities	impunity	impure	impurely	impureness	impurities	impurity	imputable	imputation	imputations	impute	imputed	imputer	imputers	imputes	imputing	in	inabilities	inability	inaccessibility	inaccessible	inaccuracies	inaccuracy	inaccurate	inaction	inactions	inactivate	inactivated	inactivates	inactivating	inactivation	inactivations	inactive	inactively	inactivities	inactivity	inadequacies	inadequacy	inadequate	inadequately	inadequateness	inadmissability	inadmissable	inadmissibility	inadmissible	inadmissibly	inadvertence	inadvertency	inadvertent	inadvertently	inadvisability	inadvisable	inadvisably	inalienability	inalienable	inalienably	inalterability	inalterable	inalterableness	inalterably	inamorata	inamoratas	inane	inanely	inaner	inaners	inanes	inanimate	inanimately	inanimateness	inanities	inanity	inapplicability	inapplicable	inapplicably	inapposite	inappositeness	inappreciable	inappreciably	inappreciative	inappreciatively	inapproachable	inappropriate	inappropriately	inappropriateness	inapt	inaptitude	inaptly	inaptness	inarguable	inarm	inarticulate	inarticulately	inarticulateness	inartistic	inartistically	inasmuch	inassimilable	inattention	inattentive	inattentively	inattentiveness	inaudibility	inaudible	inaudibly	inaugural	inaugurals	inaugurate	inaugurated	inaugurates	inaugurating	inauguration	inaugurations	inaugurator	inauspicious	inauspiciously	inauspiciousness	inboard	inboards	inborn	inbound	inbounds	inbreathe	inbreathing	inbred	inbreed	inbreeder	inbreeding	inbreeds	inbuilt	inc	inca	incaged	incages	incalculable	incalculableness	incalculably	incandescence	incandescent	incandescently	incantation	incantations	incapabilities	incapability	incapable	incapably	incapacious	incapacitant	incapacitate	incapacitated	incapacitates	incapacitating	incapacitation	incapacitator	incapacities	incapacity	incarcerate	incarcerated	incarcerates	incarcerating	incarceration	incarcerations	incarcerator	incarcerators	incarnadine	incarnadined	incarnadines	incarnadining	incarnate	incarnated	incarnates	incarnating	incarnation	incarnations	incas	incase	incased	incases	incautious	incautiously	incendiaries	incendiarism	incendiarist	incendiary	incense	incensed	incenses	incensing	incentive	incentives	incept	incepting	inception	inceptions	inceptive	inceptors	incepts	incertitude	incessant	incessantly	incest	incests	incestuous	incestuously	incestuousness	inch	inched	inches	inching	inchoate	inchoately	inchworm	inchworms	incidence	incident	incidental	incidentally	incidentals	incidentless	incidently	incidents	incinerate	incinerated	incinerates	incinerating	incineration	incinerations	incinerator	incinerators	incipience	incipiencies	incipiency	incipient	incise	incised	incises	incising	incision	incisions	incisive	incisively	incisiveness	incisor	incisors	incisory	incitant	incitants	incitation	incitations	incite	incited	incitement	incitements	inciter	inciters	incites	inciting	incitingly	incitive	incitory	incivil	incivilities	incivility	inclemency	inclement	inclinable	inclination	inclinations	incline	inclined	incliner	incliners	inclines	inclining	inclinometer	inclose	inclosed	incloser	inclosers	incloses	inclosing	inclosure	include	included	includes	including	inclusion	inclusions	inclusive	inclusively	inclusiveness	incog	incognita	incognito	incognitos	incognizant	incoherence	incoherences	incoherent	incoherently	incoincidence	incoincident	incombustible	income	incomes	incoming	incomings	incommensurable	incommensurate	incommensurately	incommode	incommoded	incommodes	incommoding	incommodious	incommunicable	incommunicably	incommunicado	incommunicative	incommutable	incommutably	incomparability	incomparable	incomparably	incompatibilities	incompatibility	incompatible	incompatibly	incompensation	incompetence	incompetencies	incompetency	incompetent	incompetently	incompetents	incomplete	incompletely	incompleteness	incompliance	incompliancies	incompliancy	incompliant	incomprehensible	incomprehensibleness	incomprehensiblies	incomprehensibly	incomprehension	incompressable	incompressibility	incompressible	incompressibly	incomputable	incomputably	inconcealable	inconceivabilities	inconceivability	inconceivable	inconceivably	inconclusive	inconclusively	inconclusiveness	incongruence	incongruent	incongruently	incongruities	incongruity	incongruous	incongruously	incongruousness	inconsequent	inconsequential	inconsequentially	inconsiderable	inconsiderate	inconsiderately	inconsiderateness	inconsistences	inconsistencies	inconsistency	inconsistent	inconsistently	inconsistentness	inconsolable	inconsolably	inconsonant	inconspicuous	inconspicuously	inconspicuousness	inconstancy	inconstant	inconstantly	inconsumable	inconsumably	incontestabilities	incontestability	incontestable	incontestably	incontinence	incontinencies	incontinency	incontinent	incontinently	incontrovertible	incontrovertibly	inconvenience	inconvenienced	inconveniences	inconveniencing	inconvenient	inconveniently	inconvertibilities	inconvertibility	incoordination	incorporate	incorporated	incorporatedness	incorporates	incorporating	incorporation	incorporations	incorporator	incorporators	incorporatorship	incorporeal	incorporeality	incorrect	incorrectly	incorrectness	incorrigibility	incorrigible	incorrigibleness	incorrigibly	incorrupt	incorrupted	incorruptibilities	incorruptibility	incorruptible	incorruptibly	incorruption	incorruptly	increasable	increase	increased	increaser	increasers	increases	increasing	increasingly	incredibilities	incredibility	incredible	incredibleness	incredibly	incredulity	incredulous	incredulously	increment	incremental	incremented	incrementing	increments	incretory	incriminate	incriminated	incriminates	incriminating	incrimination	incriminator	incriminatory	incrust	incrustation	incrustations	incrusted	incrusting	incrusts	incubate	incubated	incubates	incubating	incubation	incubational	incubations	incubative	incubator	incubators	incubi	incubus	incubuses	inculcate	inculcated	inculcates	inculcating	inculcation	inculpability	inculpable	inculpate	inculpated	inculpates	inculpating	incumbencies	incumbency	incumbent	incumbently	incumbents	incumber	incumbered	incumbering	incumbers	incumbrance	incunabula	incunabulum	incur	incurability	incurable	incurably	incurious	incuriously	incurrable	incurred	incurring	incurs	incursion	incursions	incurve	incurving	incus	indebted	indebtedness	indecencies	indecency	indecent	indecenter	indecently	indeciduous	indecipherable	indecision	indecisive	indecisively	indecisiveness	indecorous	indecorously	indecorousness	indeed	indefatigability	indefatigable	indefatigably	indefeasible	indefeasibly	indefensibility	indefensible	indefensibly	indefinable	indefinably	indefinite	indefinitely	indefiniteness	indelible	indelibly	indelicacy	indelicate	indelicately	indemnification	indemnifications	indemnificator	indemnificatory	indemnified	indemnifier	indemnifies	indemnify	indemnifying	indemnitee	indemnities	indemnitor	indemnity	indemnization	indemonstrable	indent	indentation	indentations	indented	indenter	indenters	indenting	indention	indentions	indentor	indentors	indents	indenture	indentured	indentures	indenturing	independence	independent	independently	independents	indescribabilities	indescribability	indescribable	indescribably	indestructibility	indestructible	indestructibleness	indestructibly	indeterminable	indeterminacy	indeterminate	indeterminately	indeterminateness	indetermination	index	indexable	indexation	indexed	indexer	indexers	indexes	indexing	india	indian	indiana	indianan	indianans	indianapolis	indianian	indianians	indians	indicants	indicate	indicated	indicates	indicating	indication	indications	indicative	indicatively	indicatives	indicator	indicators	indices	indicia	indicium	indict	indictable	indictably	indicted	indictee	indictees	indicter	indicters	indicting	indictment	indictments	indictor	indictors	indicts	indies	indifference	indifferent	indifferently	indigence	indigene	indigenes	indigenous	indigens	indigent	indigently	indigents	indigestibility	indigestibilty	indigestible	indigestion	indigestive	indign	indignant	indignantly	indignation	indignities	indignity	indigo	indigoes	indigos	indirect	indirection	indirections	indirectly	indirectness	indiscernible	indiscoverable	indiscreet	indiscreetly	indiscreetness	indiscrete	indiscretion	indiscretions	indiscriminantly	indiscriminate	indiscriminately	indiscriminateness	indiscriminating	indiscrimination	indispensabilities	indispensability	indispensable	indispensableness	indispensably	indispensible	indisposed	indisposition	indispositions	indisputable	indisputableness	indisputably	indissolubility	indissoluble	indissolubly	indistinct	indistinctly	indistinctness	indistinguishable	indite	indited	inditer	inditers	indites	inditing	indium	indiums	individual	individualism	individualist	individualistic	individualists	individualities	individuality	individualization	individualize	individualized	individualizes	individualizing	individually	individuals	individuate	individuated	individuates	individuating	individuation	indivisibility	indivisible	indivisibly	indochina	indochinese	indoctrinate	indoctrinated	indoctrinates	indoctrinating	indoctrination	indoctrinations	indol	indolence	indolent	indolently	indomitable	indomitably	indonesia	indonesian	indonesians	indoor	indoors	indorse	indorsed	indorsee	indorsees	indorsement	indorser	indorses	indorsing	indorsor	indorsors	indow	indowed	indows	indraft	indrawn	indubitable	indubitably	induce	induced	inducement	inducements	inducer	inducers	induces	inducible	inducing	induct	inductance	inductances	inducted	inductee	inductees	inducting	induction	inductions	inductive	inductively	inductiveness	inductor	inductors	inducts	indue	indued	indues	indulge	indulged	indulgence	indulgences	indulgent	indulgently	indulger	indulgers	indulges	indulging	indurate	indurated	indurates	indurating	induration	indurations	indurative	industrial	industrialism	industrialist	industrialists	industrialization	industrialize	industrialized	industrializes	industrializing	industrially	industrials	industries	industrious	industriously	industriousness	industry	industry's	indwell	indwelling	indwells	indwelt	inearthed	inebriant	inebriate	inebriated	inebriates	inebriating	inebriation	inebriety	inebrious	inedible	inedited	ineducability	ineducable	ineffable	ineffably	ineffaceable	ineffective	ineffectively	ineffectiveness	ineffectual	ineffectually	ineffectualness	inefficacious	inefficaciously	inefficacy	inefficiencies	inefficiency	inefficient	inefficiently	inelastic	inelasticity	inelegance	inelegant	inelegantly	ineligibility	ineligible	ineligibles	ineligibly	ineloquent	ineloquently	ineluctable	ineluctably	inept	ineptitude	ineptly	ineptness	inequable	inequalities	inequality	inequitable	inequitableness	inequitably	inequities	inequity	ineradicable	inerrant	inert	inertia	inertial	inertias	inertly	inertness	inerts	inescapable	inescapably	inessential	inestimable	inestimably	inevitabilities	inevitability	inevitable	inevitableness	inevitably	inexact	inexactitude	inexactly	inexactness	inexcusability	inexcusable	inexcusableness	inexcusably	inexecutable	inexecution	inexhaustible	inexhaustibly	inexorable	inexorably	inexpedient	inexpensive	inexpensively	inexpensiveness	inexperience	inexperienced	inexpert	inexpertly	inexpiable	inexplicable	inexplicably	inexpressibilities	inexpressibility	inexpressible	inexpressibly	inexpressive	inexpressiveness	inextinguishable	inextinguishables	inextinguishably	inextricability	inextricable	inextricably	infallibility	infallible	infallibleness	infallibly	infamies	infamous	infamously	infamy	infancies	infancy	infant	infanticidal	infanticide	infanticides	infantile	infantilism	infantility	infantries	infantry	infantryman	infantrymen	infants	infarct	infarcted	infarction	infarctions	infarcts	infatuate	infatuated	infatuates	infatuating	infatuation	infatuations	infeasible	infect	infected	infecter	infecters	infecting	infection	infections	infectious	infectiously	infectiousness	infective	infector	infectors	infects	infecund	infelicitous	infelicity	infeoffed	infer	inferable	inference	inferences	inferential	inferentially	inferior	inferiorities	inferiority	inferiors	infernal	infernally	inferno	infernos	inferred	inferrer	inferrers	inferrible	inferring	infers	infertile	infertilely	infertility	infest	infestation	infestations	infested	infester	infesters	infesting	infests	infidel	infidelities	infidelity	infidels	infield	infielder	infielders	infields	infighter	infighters	infighting	infiltrate	infiltrated	infiltrates	infiltrating	infiltration	infiltrations	infiltrator	infiltrators	infinite	infinitely	infiniteness	infinites	infinitesimal	infinitesimally	infinitesimals	infinities	infinitive	infinitives	infinitude	infinitum	infinity	infirm	infirmable	infirmaries	infirmary	infirmed	infirming	infirmities	infirmity	infirmly	infirmness	infirms	infix	infixed	infixes	inflame	inflamed	inflamer	inflamers	inflames	inflaming	inflammabilities	inflammability	inflammable	inflammation	inflammations	inflammative	inflammatorily	inflammatory	inflatable	inflate	inflated	inflater	inflaters	inflates	inflating	inflation	inflationary	inflationism	inflationist	inflationists	inflations	inflator	inflators	inflect	inflected	inflecting	inflection	inflectional	inflections	inflects	inflexed	inflexibility	inflexible	inflexibleness	inflexibly	inflict	inflictable	inflicted	inflicter	inflicting	infliction	inflictions	inflictive	inflictor	inflicts	inflight	inflorescence	inflow	inflows	influence	influenceabilities	influenceability	influenceable	influenced	influencer	influences	influencing	influent	influential	influents	influenza	influenzas	influx	influxes	info	infold	infolded	infolder	infolders	infolding	infolds	inform	informal	informalities	informality	informally	informant	informants	information	informational	informative	informatively	informativeness	informed	informer	informers	informing	informs	infos	infra	infract	infracted	infraction	infractions	infractor	infrangible	infrared	infrareds	infrasonic	infrastructure	infrastructures	infrequence	infrequency	infrequent	infrequently	infringe	infringed	infringement	infringements	infringer	infringers	infringes	infringing	infundibula	infundibular	infundibuliform	infundibulum	infuriate	infuriated	infuriates	infuriating	infuriatingly	infuriation	infuse	infused	infuser	infusers	infuses	infusibility	infusible	infusing	infusion	infusions	infusive	infusoria	ingate	ingather	ingathered	ingathers	ingenious	ingeniously	ingeniousness	ingenue	ingenues	ingenuity	ingenuous	ingenuously	ingenuousness	ingest	ingestant	ingested	ingestible	ingesting	ingestion	ingestive	ingests	ingle	ingles	inglorious	ingloriously	ingloriousness	ingoing	ingot	ingots	ingraft	ingrafted	ingrafting	ingrain	ingrained	ingraining	ingrains	ingrate	ingrates	ingratiate	ingratiated	ingratiates	ingratiating	ingratiation	ingratitude	ingredient	ingredients	ingress	ingresses	ingression	ingressive	ingroup	ingroups	ingrowing	ingrown	ingrowths	inguinal	ingulf	ingulfing	ingulfs	inhabit	inhabitability	inhabitable	inhabitance	inhabitancies	inhabitancy	inhabitant	inhabitants	inhabitation	inhabited	inhabiter	inhabiting	inhabitress	inhabits	inhalant	inhalants	inhalation	inhalations	inhalator	inhalators	inhale	inhaled	inhaler	inhalers	inhales	inhaling	inharmonic	inharmonious	inhaul	inhaulers	inhere	inhered	inherence	inherent	inherently	inheres	inhering	inherit	inheritabilities	inheritability	inheritable	inheritably	inheritance	inheritances	inherited	inheriting	inheritor	inheritors	inheritress	inherits	inhesions	inhibit	inhibited	inhibiter	inhibiting	inhibition	inhibitions	inhibitive	inhibitor	inhibitors	inhibitory	inhibits	inholding	inhomogeneities	inhospitable	inhospitably	inhospitality	inhuman	inhumane	inhumanely	inhumanities	inhumanity	inhumanly	inhume	inhumed	inhumer	inhumes	inimicability	inimical	inimically	inimitable	inimitably	iniquities	iniquitous	iniquitously	iniquity	initial	initialed	initialing	initialization	initialize	initialized	initializing	initialled	initialling	initially	initials	initiate	initiated	initiates	initiating	initiation	initiations	initiative	initiatives	initiator	initiators	initiatory	inject	injectant	injected	injecting	injection	injections	injector	injectors	injects	injudicious	injudiciously	injudiciousness	injunction	injunctions	injure	injured	injurer	injurers	injures	injuries	injuring	injurious	injuriously	injuriousness	injury	injustice	injustices	ink	inkblot	inkblots	inked	inker	inkers	inkhorn	inkhorns	inkier	inkiest	inkiness	inking	inkle	inkles	inkless	inkling	inklings	inkpot	inkpots	inks	inkstand	inkstands	inkwell	inkwells	inky	inlaid	inland	inlander	inlanders	inlands	inlay	inlayer	inlayers	inlaying	inlays	inlet	inlets	inletting	inlier	inliers	inly	inmate	inmates	inmesh	inmeshing	inmost	inn	innards	innate	innately	innateness	inned	inner	innerly	innermost	inners	innersole	innerspring	innervate	innervated	innervates	innervating	innervation	innervational	innervations	innerving	innholder	inning	innings	innkeeper	innkeepers	innocence	innocency	innocent	innocenter	innocently	innocents	innocuous	innocuously	innocuousness	innominate	innovate	innovated	innovates	innovating	innovation	innovations	innovative	innovator	innovators	innoxious	inns	innuendo	innuendoes	innuendos	innumerable	inoculant	inoculate	inoculated	inoculates	inoculating	inoculation	inoculations	inoculative	inoculums	inoffensive	inoffensively	inoffensiveness	inofficial	inofficious	inoperable	inoperative	inopportune	inopportunely	inordinate	inordinately	inorganic	inorganically	inositols	inpatient	inpatients	inphase	inpouring	inpours	input	inputs	inputted	inputting	inquest	inquests	inquieting	inquietude	inquire	inquired	inquirer	inquirers	inquires	inquiries	inquiring	inquiringly	inquiry	inquisition	inquisitional	inquisitions	inquisitive	inquisitively	inquisitiveness	inquisitor	inquisitorial	inquisitorially	inquisitors	inquisitory	inroad	inroads	inrush	inrushes	inrushing	ins	insalivating	insalivation	insalubrious	insalubrities	insalubrity	insane	insanely	insaner	insanest	insanitary	insanitation	insanities	insanity	insatiability	insatiable	insatiably	insatiate	inscribe	inscribed	inscriber	inscribers	inscribes	inscribing	inscription	inscriptions	inscrolls	inscrutability	inscrutable	inscrutableness	inscrutably	inseam	inseams	insect
footbridge	footbridges	footed	footer	footers	footfall	footfalls	footgear	footgears	foothill	foothills	foothold	footholds	footier	footing	footings	footless	footlessness	footlight	footlights	footlocker	footlockers	footloose	footman	footmark	footmarks	footmen	footnote	footnoted	footnotes	footnoting	footpace	footpaces	footpad	footpads	footpath	footpaths	footprint	footprints	footrace	footraces	footrest	footrests	footrope	footropes	foots	footsie	footsies	footslog	footslogs	footsore	footsoreness	footstep	footsteps	footstool	footstools	footway	footways	footwear	footwears	footwork	footworks
ejections	ejective	ejectives	ejectment	ejector	ejectors	ejects	ejectum	eke	eked	ekes	eking	ekistic	ekistics	elaborate	elaborated	elaborately	elaborateness	elaborates	elaborating	elaboration	elaborations	elaborator	elaborators	elaine	elan	eland	elands
jurisdictionally	jurisdictions	jurisdictive	jurisprudence	jurisprudent	jurisprudential	jurist	juristic	juristically	jurists	juror	jurors	jury	juryless	juryman	jurymen	jurywoman	jurywomen	jus	just	justed	juster	justers	justest	justice	justices	justiceship	justiciable	justiciary	justifiable	justifiably	justification	justifications	justified	justifier	justifiers	justifies	justify	justifying	justing	justinian	justle	justly	justness	justs	jut	jute	jutes	juts	jutted	jutting	juttingly	jutty	juvenal	juvenile	juveniles	juvenilities	juvenility	juxta	juxtapose	juxtaposed	juxtaposes	juxtaposing	juxtaposition	juxtapositions	kabala	kabalas	kabbala	kabbalah	kabbalahs	kabbalas	kabob	kabobs	kabuki	kabukis	kachina	kachinas	kaddish	kaddishes	kadis	kadish	kadishim	kaffir	kaffirs	kafir	kafirs	kafka	kaftan	kaftans	kahuna	kahunas	kaiak	kaiser	kaisers	kajeput	kajeputs	kaka	kakas	kakemono	kakemonos	kakis	kakistocracies	kakistocracy	kakogenic	kale	kaleidoscope	kaleidoscopes	kaleidoscopic	kaleidoscopically	kalends	kales	kaleyards	kalif	kalifate	kalifs	kalimba	kalimbas	kaliph	kaliphs	kalium	kaliums	kalpa	kalpas	kamaaina	kamaainas	kame	kames	kamikaze	kamikazes	kampuchea	kanas	kangaroo	kangaroos	kanji	kanjis	kansan	kansans	kansas	kantian	kantians	kaolin	kaons	kapok	kapoks	kappa	kappas	kaput	kaputt	karakul	karakuls	karat	karate	karates	karats	karen	karma	karmas	karmic	karst	karsts	kart	karts	karyocyte	karyotype	kasha	kashas	kashmir	kashmirs	katabolism	katakana	katakanas	katharine	katharses	katharsis	kathartic	katherine	kathy	katrina	katydid	katydids	katzenjammer	kayak	kayaker	kayakers	kayaks	kayo	kayoed	kayoes	kayoing	kayos	kays	kazoo	kazoos	kb	keats	kebab	kebabs	kebob	kebobs	kedge	kedged	kedges	kedging	keefs	keel	keelage	keelboats	keeled	keeler	keelhaul	keelhauled	keelhauls	keeling	keelless	keels	keen	keened	keener	keeners	keenest	keening	keenly	keenness	keens	keep	keepable	keeper	keepers	keeping	keepings	keeps	keepsake	keepsakes	keester	keesters	kefir	kefirs	keg	kegler	keglers	kegs	keister	keisters	keloid	keloidal	keloids	kelp	kelped	kelpie	kelpies	kelping	kelps	kelpy	keltic	keltics	kelts	kelvin	kelvins	kempt	ken	kendo	kendos	kenned	kennedy	kennel	kenneled	kenneling	kennelled	kennelling	kennels	kenning	kennings	kenny	keno	kenos	kenosis	kenosises	kens	kent	kentuckian	kentuckians	kentucky	kenya	kenyans	kepi	kepis	kept	keratin	keratins	keratitis	keratoid	keratomas	keratoses	keratosis	keratotic	keratotomies	kerb	kerbed	kerbing	kerbs	kerchief	kerchiefs	kerchieves	kerchoo	kerf	kerfed	kerfing	kerfs	kern	kerned	kernel	kerneled	kerneling	kernelled	kernelling	kernels	kerning	kerns	kerosene	kerosenes	kerosine	kerplunk	kerry	kestrel	kestrels	ketch	ketches	ketchup	ketchups	ketone	ketones	ketonuria	kettle	kettledrum	kettledrums	kettles	kevels	kevils	key	keyage	keyboard	keyboarded	keyboards	keyed	keyhole	keyholes	keying	keyless	keyman	keynote	keynoted	keynoter	keynoters	keynotes	keynoting	keypad	keypunch	keypunched	keypuncher	keypunchers	keypunches	keypunching	keys	keyset	keysets	keyster	keysters	keystone	keystones	keystroke	keystrokes	keyway	keyways	keyword	keywords	khaki	khakis	khalif	khalifa	khalifs	khan	khanate	khanates	khans	khartoum	khats	khedive	khedives	khrushchev	kibble	kibbled	kibbles	kibbling	kibbutz	kibbutzim	kibitz	kibitzed	kibitzer	kibitzers	kibitzes	kibitzing	kibosh	kiboshed	kiboshes	kiboshing	kick	kickback	kickbacks	kicked	kicker	kickers	kickier	kickiest	kicking	kickoff	kickoffs	kicks	kickshaw	kickshaws	kickstand	kickstands	kickup	kickups	kicky	kid	kidded	kidder	kidders	kiddie	kiddies	kidding	kiddingly	kiddish	kiddo	kiddoes	kiddos	kiddy	kidnap	kidnaped	kidnapee	kidnaper	kidnapers	kidnaping	kidnapped	kidnapper	kidnappers	kidnapping	kidnaps	kidney	kidneys	kids	kidskin	kidskins	kidvid	kiefs	kielbasa	kielbasas	kielbasy	kieselguhr	kiester	kiesters	kiev	kike	kikes	kill	killdee	killdeer	killdeers	killdees	killed	killer	killers	killing	killings	killjoy	killjoys	kills	kiln	kilned	kilning	kilns	kilo	kilobar	kilobit	kilobits	kilobyte	kilobytes	kilocycle	kilocycles	kilogram	kilograms	kilohertz	kiloliter	kilometer	kilometers	kilorad	kilorads	kilos	kiloton	kilotons	kilovolt	kilovolts	kilowatt	kilowatts	kilt	kilted	kilter	kilters	kiltie	kilties	kilting	kilts	kilty	kimono	kimonoed	kimonos	kin	kinaestheic	kinaesthesia	kinaesthesias	kinaesthetic	kinaesthetically	kind	kinder	kindergarten	kindergartens	kindergartner	kindergartners	kindest	kindhearted	kindheartedly	kindheartedness	kindle	kindled	kindler	kindlers	kindles	kindlier	kindliest	kindliness	kindling	kindlings	kindly	kindness	kindnesses	kindred	kindredless	kindredness	kindreds	kindredship	kinds	kine	kinema	kinemas	kinematic	kinematical	kinematically	kinematics	kinematograph	kineplasty	kines	kinescope	kinescopes	kineses	kinesic	kinesics	kinesiologic	kinesiological	kinesiologies	kinesiology	kinesis	kinesthesia	kinesthesias	kinesthetic	kinesthetically	kinetic	kinetics	kinetins	kinfolk	kinfolks	king	kingdom	kingdoms	kinged	kingfish	kingfisher	kingfishers	kingfishes	kinghoods	kinging	kingless	kinglet	kinglets	kinglier	kingliest	kingliness	kingly	kingpin	kingpins	kings	kingship	kingships	kingside	kingwood	kinhin	kink	kinkajou	kinkajous	kinked	kinkier	kinkiest	kinkily	kinkiness	kinking	kinks	kinky	kinless	kins	kinsfolk	kinship	kinships	kinsman	kinsmanship	kinsmen	kinspeople	kinswoman	kinswomen	kiosk	kiosks	kiowa	kip	kipper	kippered	kippering	kippers	kippur	kips	kipskins	kirigami	kirigamis	kirk	kirkman	kirkmen	kirks	kirned	kirsch	kirsches	kirtle	kirtled	kirtles	kishka	kishkas	kishkes	kismet	kismetic	kismets	kiss	kissable	kissably	kissed	kisser	kissers	kisses	kissing	kist	kit	kitchen	kitchenette	kitchenettes	kitchens	kitchenware	kite	kited	kiter	kiters	kites	kith	kithara	kitharas	kithing	kiths	kiting	kitling	kitlings	kits	kitsch	kitsches	kitschy	kitted	kitten	kittened	kittening	kittenish	kittenishly	kittens	kitties	kitting	kitty	kivas	kiwi	kiwis	kl	klanism	klans	klatch	klatches	klatsch	klatsches	klaxon	klaxons	kleig	kleptomania	kleptomaniac	kleptomaniacs	klieg	kludge	kludged	kludges	kludging	klutz	klutzes	klutzier	klutziest	klutzy	klystron	klystrons	knack	knacked	knacker	knackeries	knackers	knackery	knacking	knacks	knackwurst	knackwursts	knapped	knapper	knappers	knapping	knaps	knapsack	knapsacks	knapweeds	knave	knaveries	knavery	knaves	knavish	knavishly	knavishness	knead	kneaded	kneader	kneaders	kneading	kneads	knee	kneecap	kneecapping	kneecappings	kneecaps	kneed	kneehole	kneeholes	kneeing	kneel	kneeled	kneeler	kneelers	kneeling	kneels	kneepad	kneepads	kneepan	knees	knell	knelled	knelling	knells	knelt	knew	knickerbockers	knickers	knickknack	knickknacks	knife	knifed	knifer	knifers	knifes	knifing	knifings	knight	knighted	knighthood	knighthoods	knighting	knightly	knights	knish	knishes	knit	knits	knitted	knitter	knitters	knitting	knittings	knitwear	knitwears	knives	knob	knobbed	knobbier	knobbiest	knobbiness	knobby	knobs	knock	knockdown	knockdowns	knocked	knocker	knockers	knocking	knockoff	knockoffs	knockout	knockouts	knocks	knockwurst	knockwursts	knoll	knolls	knolly	knot	knothole	knotholes	knots	knotted	knotter	knotters	knottier	knottiest	knottily	knottiness	knotting	knotty	knotweed	knotweeds	knout	knouted	knouting	knouts	know	knowable	knower	knowers	knowhow	knowhows	knowing	knowinger	knowingest	knowingly	knowingness	knowings	knowledge	knowledgeability	knowledgeable	knowledgeably	knowledged	knowledgeless	known	knowns	knows	knox	knoxville	knuckle	knuckleball	knucklebone	knucklebones	knuckled	knucklehead	knuckleheads	knuckler	knucklers	knuckles	knucklier	knuckliest	knuckling	knuckly	knucks	knurl	knurled	knurlier	knurliest	knurling	knurls	knurly	koala	koalas	koan	koans	kobold	kobolds	kodak	kodiak	kohl	kohlrabi	kohlrabies	kohls	kola	kolas	kolinskies	kolinsky	kolkhoz	komondors	kong	koodoos	kook	kookaburra	kookie	kookier	kookiest	kookiness	kooks	kooky	kopeck	kopecks	kopek	kopeks	kophs	kopje	kopjes	koppies	koran	korea	korean	koreans	korsakoff	korsakow	koruna	korunas	koruny	kosher	koshered	koshering	koshers	koto	kotos	kowtow	kowtowed	kowtower	kowtowers	kowtowing	kowtows	kraal	kraals	kraft	krafts	krait	kraits	kraken	krakens	kraut	krauts	krebs	kremlin	kremlinologist	kremlinologists	kremlinology	kremlins	kreutzer	kreuzers	krill	krills	kris	krises	krishna	krispies	krona	krone	kronen	kroner	kronor	kronur	kryolites	kryoliths	krypton	kryptonite	kryptons	kuchen	kuchens	kudo	kudos	kudu	kudus	kudzu	kudzus	kulak	kulaks	kultur	kulturs	kumiss	kummels	kumquat	kumquats	kumshaw	kung	kuwait	kvetch	kvetched	kvetches	kvetching	kwacha	kwachas	kwashiorkor	kwhr	kyanising	kyanizing	kyat	kyats	kymograms	kymograph	kynurenic	kyoto	kyrie	kyries	la	laager	lab	label	labeled	labeler	labelers	labeling	labella	labelled	labeller	labellers	labelling	labels	labia	labial	labially	labials	labiate	labile	labium	labor	laboratorial	laboratorially	laboratorian	laboratories	laboratory	labored	laboredly	laborer	laborers	laboring	laboringly	laborings	laborious	laboriously	laboriousness	laborite	laborites	labors	laborsaving	labour	laboured	labourer	labourers	labouring	labours	labrador	labradorite	labs	laburnum	laburnums	labyrinth	labyrinthine	labyrinths	lac	laccolith	laccoliths	lace	laced	laceier	lacer	lacerable	lacerate	lacerated	lacerates	lacerating	laceration	lacerations	lacerative	lacers	laces	lacewing	lacewings	lacework	laceworks	lacey	lachrymal	lachrymation	lachrymator	lachrymatory	lachrymose	lacier	laciest	lacily	laciness	lacing	lacings	lack	lackadaisical	lackadaisically	lackaday	lacked	lacker	lackers	lackey	lackeyed	lackeying	lackeys	lacking	lackluster	lacks	laconic	laconically	laconism	lacquer	lacquered	lacquerer	lacquerers	lacquering	lacquers	lacrimal	lacrimation	lacrimatory	lacrosse	lacrosses	lactate	lactated	lactates	lactating	lactation	lactational	lactationally	lactations	lacteal	lacteally	lactic	lactobacilli	lactobacillus	lactoprotein	lactose	lactoses	lactovegetarian	lacuna	lacunae	lacunal	lacunar	lacunary	lacunas	lacy	lad	ladanum	ladanums	ladder	laddered	laddering	ladders	laddie	laddies	lade	laded	laden	ladened	ladens	lader	laders	lades	ladies	lading	ladings	ladle	ladled	ladleful	ladlefuls	ladler	ladlers	ladles	ladling	ladron	ladrone	ladrons	lads	lady	ladybird	ladybirds	ladybug	ladybugs	ladyfinger	ladyfingers	ladyish	ladykin	ladylike	ladylove	ladyloves	ladyship	ladyships	laetrile	lafayette	lag	lager	lagers	laggard	laggardly	laggardness	laggards	lagged	lagger	laggers	lagging	laggings	lagniappe	lagniappes	lagoon	lagoonal	lagoons	lags	laguna	lagunas	lahore	laical	laicisms	laicized	laicizes	laicizing	laid	lain	lair	laird	lairdly	lairds	laired	lairing	lairs	laissez	lait	laities	laity	lake	laked	lakeport	lakeports	laker	lakers	lakes	lakeside	lakesides	lakier	lakiest	laking	lakings	laky	lallygag	lallygagged	lallygagging	lallygags	lam	lama	lamaism	lamas	lamaseries	lamasery	lamb	lambast	lambaste	lambasted	lambastes	lambasting	lambasts	lambda	lambdas	lambed	lambencies	lambency	lambent	lambently	lamber	lambers	lambert	lambie	lambies	lambing	lambkin	lambkins	lambs	lambskin	lambskins	lame	lamebrain	lamebrains	lamed	lamedhs	lameds	lamella	lamellae	lamellas	lamely	lameness	lament	lamentable	lamentably	lamentation	lamentations	lamented	lamenter	lamenters	lamenting	laments	lamer	lames	lamest	lamia	lamias	lamina	laminae	laminal	laminar	laminary	laminas	laminate	laminated	laminates	laminating	lamination	laminator	laming	lammed	lamming	lamp	lampblack	lamped	lampers	lamping	lamplight	lamplighter	lampoon	lampooned	lampooner	lampooners	lampoonery	lampooning	lampoonist	lampoonists	lampoons	lamppost	lampposts	lamprey	lampreys	lamps	lams	lanai	lanais	lance	lanced	lancelets	lancelot	lancer	lancers	lances	lancet	lanceted	lancets	lanciers	lancinate	lancing	land	landau	landaus	landed	lander	landers	landfall	landfalls	landfill	landfills	landform	landforms	landholder	landholders	landholding	landing	landings	landladies	landlady	landless	landlessness	landlocked	landlord	landlordism	landlordly	landlords	landlordship	landlubber	landlubbers	landmark	landmarks	landmass	landmasses	landocracies	landowner	landowners	landownership	landowning	landright	lands	landsat	landscape	landscaped	landscaper	landscapers	landscapes	landscaping	landsides	landskips	landslid	landslide	landslides	landslip	landslips	landsman	landsmen	landward	lane	lanes	langauge	langley	langsynes	language	languages	langues	languid	languidly	languidness	languish	languished	languisher	languishers	languishes	languishing	languor	languorous	languorously	languorousness	languors	langur	laniard	lank	lanker	lankest	lankier	lankiest	lankily	lankiness	lankly	lankness	lanky	lanolin	lanoline	lanolines	lanolins	lansing	lantana	lantanas	lantern	lanterns	lanthanum	lanthorns	lanyard	lanyards	laos	laotian	laotians	lap	laparorrhaphy	laparoscope	laparotomies	laparotomy	lapboard	lapboards	lapdog	lapdogs	lapel	lapels	lapful	lapfuls	lapidaries	lapidary	lapidated	lapidates	lapidating	lapidists	lapin	lapinized	lapis	lapises	lapland	laplander	laplanders	lapp	lapped	lapper	lappering	lappers	lappet	lappets	lapping	lapps	laps	lapse	lapsed	lapser	lapsers	lapses	lapsing	lapsus	laptop	lapwing	lapwings	larboard	larboards	larcenable	larcener	larceners	larcenies	larcenist	larcenists	larcenous	larcenously	larceny	larch	larches	lard	larded	larder	larders	lardier	lardiest	larding	lards	lardy	lares	large	largehearted	largely	largeness	larger	larges	largess	largesse	largesses	largest	largish	largo	largos	lariat	lariated	lariating	lariats	lark	larked	larker	larkers	larkier	larking	larks	larkspur	larkspurs	larky	larrup	larruped	larruper	larrupers	larruping	larrups	larry	larums	larva	larvae	larval	larvas	larvicide	laryngal	laryngeal	laryngectomies	laryngectomize	laryngectomy	larynges	laryngitic	laryngitis	laryngology	laryngoscope	laryngoscopy	laryngotracheal	larynx	larynxes	lasagna	lasagnas	lasagne	lasagnes	lascar	lascars	lascivious	lasciviously	lasciviousness	lased	laser	laserdisk	laserdisks	laserjet	lasers	lases	lash	lashed	lasher	lashers	lashes	lashing	lashings	lasing	lass	lasses	lassie	lassies	lassitude	lassitudes	lasso	lassoed	lassoer	lassoers	lassoes	lassoing	lassos	last	lasted	laster	lasters	lasting	lastingly	lastingness	lastings	lastly	lasts	latch	latched	latches	latchets	latching	latchkey	latchkeys	latchstring	latchstrings	late	latecomer	latecomers	lated	lateen	lateens	lately	laten	latencies	latency	latened	lateness	latening	latens	latent	latently	latents	later	lateral	lateraled	lateralities	laterally	laterals	latest	latests	latex	latexes	lath	lathe	lathed	lather	lathered	latherer	latherers	lathering	lathers	lathery	lathes	lathier	lathing	lathings	laths	lathwork	lathworks	lathy	latin	latinize	latinized	latinizes	latinizing	latino	latinos	latins	latish	latissimi	latissimus	latitude	latitudes	latitudinal	latitudinally	latitudinarian	latitudinarianism	latitudinarians	latrine	latrines	latten	latter	latterly	lattice	latticed	lattices	latticework	latticing	latvia	latvian	latvians	laud	laudability	laudable	laudably	laudanum	laudanums	laudation	laudator	laudatorily	laudators	laudatory	laude	lauded	lauder	lauderdale	lauders	lauding	lauds	laugh	laughable	laughably	laughed	laugher	laughers	laughing	laughingly	laughings	laughingstock	laughingstocks	laughs	laughter	laughters	launch	launched	launcher	launchers	launches	launching	launchings	launder	laundered	launderer	launderers	launderette	laundering	launders	laundress	laundresses	laundries	laundromat	laundromats	laundry	laundryman	laundrymen	laundrywoman	laundrywomen	laura	lauras	laureate	laureated	laureates	laureateship	laureateships	laureating	laurel	laureled	laureling	laurelled	laurelling	laurels	lava	lavabo	lavaboes	lavage	lavages	lavalava	lavalavas	lavalier	lavaliere	lavalieres	lavaliers	lavas	lavation	lavations	lavatories	lavatory	lave	laved	lavender	lavendered	lavenders	laver	lavers	laves	laving	lavish	lavished	lavisher	lavishers	lavishes	lavishest	lavishing	lavishly	lavishness	law	lawbook	lawbreaker	lawbreakers	lawbreaking	lawcourt	lawed	lawful	lawfully	lawfulness	lawgiver	lawgivers	lawgiving	lawing	lawings	lawless	lawlessly	lawlessness	lawmaker	lawmakers	lawmaking	lawman	lawmen	lawn	lawnmower	lawns	lawny	lawrence	lawrencium	laws	lawsuit	lawsuits	lawyer	lawyeress	lawyeresses	lawyering	lawyerlike	lawyerly	lawyers	lax	laxative	laxatives	laxer	laxest	laxities	laxity	laxly	laxness	laxnesses	lay	layabout	layabouts	layaway	layaways	layed	layer	layered	layering	layerings	layers	layette	layettes	laying	layman	laymen	layoff	layoffs	layout	layouts	layover	layovers	lays	laywoman	laywomen	lazar	lazaret	lazarette	lazaretto	lazarettos	lazars	lazarus	laze	lazed	lazes	lazied	lazier	lazies	laziest	lazily	laziness	lazing	lazuli	lazulis	lazy	lazybones	lazying	lazyish	lbs	lea	leach	leached	leacher	leachers	leaches	leachier	leachiest	leaching	leachy	lead	leaded	leaden	leadenly	leader	leaderless	leaders	leadership	leadier	leading	leadings	leadoff	leadoffs	leads	leadworks	leady	leaf	leafage	leafed	leafhopper	leafhoppers	leafier	leafiest	leafing	leafless	leaflet	leaflets	leafs	leafstalk	leafstalks	leafworm	leafworms	leafy	league	leagued	leaguer	leaguered	leaguering	leaguers	leagues	leaguing	leak	leakage	leakages	leaked	leaker	leakers	leakier	leakiest	leakily	leakiness	leaking	leaks	leaky	leal	lean	leaned	leaner	leanest	leaning	leanings	leanly	leanness	leans	leant	leap	leaped	leaper	leapers	leapfrog	leapfrogged	leapfrogging	leapfrogs	leaping	leaps	leapt	lear	learn	learnable	learned	learnedness	learner	learners	learning	learnings	learns	learnt	leary	leas	leasable	lease	leaseback	leased	leasehold	leaseholder	leaseholders	leaseholds	leaseless	leaser	leasers	leases	leash	leashed	leashes	leashing	leasing	leasings	least	leasts	leastwise	leather	leathered	leatheriness	leathering	leathern	leatherneck	leathernecks	leathers	leathery	leave	leaved	leaven	leavened	leavening	leavens	leaver	leavers	leaves	leavier	leaving	leavings	lebanese	lebanon	lech	lechayim	lecher	lechered	lecheries	lechering	lecherous	lecherously	lecherousness	lechers	lechery	leches	lecithin	lecithins	lect	lectern	lecterns	lections	lector	lectors	lecture	lectured	lecturer	lecturers	lectures	lectureship	lectureships	lecturing	led	ledge	ledgeless	ledger	ledgers	ledges	ledgier	ledgy	lee	leeboard	leeboards	leech	leeched	leeches	leeching	leeds	leek	leeks	leer	leered	leerier	leeriest	leerily	leeriness	leering	leeringly	leers	leery	lees	leeward	leewardly	leewards	leeway	leeways	left	lefter	leftest	lefties	leftism	leftisms	leftist	leftists	leftover	leftovers	lefts	leftward	leftwing	lefty	leg	legacies	legacy	legal	legalese	legaleses	legalism	legalisms	legalist	legalistic	legalistically	legalists	legalities	legality	legalization	legalizations	legalize	legalized	legalizes	legalizing	legally	legalness	legals	legate	legated	legatee	legatees	legates	legateship	legateships	legation	legationary	legations	legato	legator	legators	legatos	legend	legendarily	legendary	legendry	legends	leger	legerdemain	legged	leggier	leggiest	legging	legginged	leggings	leggins	leggy	leghorn	leghorns	legibilities	legibility	legible	legibleness	legibly	legion	legionaries	legionary	legionnaire	legionnaires	legions	legislate	legislated	legislates	legislating	legislation	legislative	legislatively	legislator	legislatorial	legislators	legislatorship	legislatress	legislatresses	legislatrices	legislatrix	legislatrixes	legislature	legislatures	legists	legit	legitimacies	legitimacy	legitimate	legitimated	legitimately	legitimateness	legitimating	legitimation	legitimatize	legitimatized	legitimatizing	legitimism	legitimist	legitimization	legitimizations	legitimize	legitimized	legitimizer	legitimizes	legitimizing	legits	legless	legman	legmen	legroom	legrooms	legs	legume	legumes	leguminous	legumins	legwork	legworks	lehayim	lei	leipzig	leis	leister	leisure	leisured	leisureless	leisurely	leisures	leitmotif	leitmotifs	lek	leks	leman	lemans	lemma	lemmas	lemming	lemmings	lemon	lemonade	lemonades	lemonish	lemons	lemony	lempira	lempiras	lemur	lemuroids	lemurs	lend	lender	lenders	lending	lends	length	lengthen	lengthened	lengthener	lengtheners	lengthening	lengthens	lengthier	lengthiest	lengthily	lengthiness	lengths	lengthwise	lengthy	lenience	leniencies	leniency	lenient	leniently	lenin	leningrad	leninism	leninist	leninists	lenities	lenitive	lenity	lens	lense	lensed	lenses	lent	lentando	lenten	lentic	lenticular	lentiform	lentil	lentils	lento	lentos	leo	leon	leonard	leonardo	leone	leones	leonine	leopard	leopards	leos	leotard	leotards	leper	lepers	lepidoptera	lepidopteran	leprechaun	leprechauns	leprosaria	leprosarium	leprosariums	leprose	leprosies	leprosy	leprous	lepton	leptonic	leptons	lesbian	lesbianism	lesbians	lese	lesion	lesions	less	lessee	lessees	lessen	lessened	lessening	lessens	lesser	lesson	lessoned	lessoning	lessons	lessor	lessors	lest	let	letch	letches	letdown	letdowns	lethal	lethalities	lethality	lethally	lethals	lethargic	lethargically	lethargies	lethargy	lethe	lethean	lethes	lets	letted	letter	lettered	letterer	letterers	letterhead	letterheads	lettering	letterings	letterman	lettermen	letterpress	letters	letting	lettuce	lettuces	letup	letups	leu	leucocyte	leucoma	leukaemia	leukaemic	leukemia	leukemias	leukemic	leukemics	leukemoid	leukocyte	leukocytes	leukoma	lev	leva	levant	levants	levator	levators	levee	leveed	leveeing	levees	level	leveled	leveler	levelers	levelheaded	levelheadedness	leveling	levelled	leveller	levellers	levelling	levelly	levelness	levels	lever	leverage	leveraged	leverages	leveraging	levered	leveret	leverets	levering	levers	levi	leviathan	leviathans	levied	levier	leviers	levies	levin	levis	levitate	levitated	levitates	levitating	levitation	levitations	levitical	leviticus	levities	levity	levo	levulose	levuloses	levy	levying	lewd	lewder	lewdest	lewdly	lewdness	lewis	lewises	lex	lexical	lexically	lexicographer	lexicographers	lexicographic	lexicographical	lexicographically	lexicography	lexicon	lexicons	ley	leys	lf	lh	liabilities	liability	liable	liaise	liaised	liaises	liaising	liaison	liaisons	liana	lianas	lianes	liar	liars	lib	libation	libationary	libations	libbed	libber	libbers	libbing	libel	libelant	libelants	libeled	libelee	libelees	libeler	libelers	libeling	libelist	libelists	libellant	libelled	libellee	libellees	libeller	libellers	libelling	libellous	libellously	libelous	libelously	libels	liber	liberal	liberalism	liberalities	liberality	liberalization	liberalizations	liberalize	liberalized	liberalizes	liberalizing	liberally	liberalness	liberals	liberate	liberated	liberates	liberating	liberation	liberationist	liberationists	liberations	liberator	liberators	liberia	liberian	liberians	libers	libertarian	libertarianism	libertarians	liberties	libertine	libertines	liberty	libidinal	libidinally	libidinization	libidinized	libidinizing	libidinous	libidinously	libido	libidos	libitum	libra	librarian	librarians	libraries	library	libras	librate	librated	librates	librating	libre	libretti	librettist	librettists	libretto	librettos	libris	libs	libya	libyans	lice	licence	licencees	licencers	licencing	licensable	license	licensed	licensee	licensees	licenseless	licenser	licensers	licenses	licensing	licensor	licensors	licensure	licentiate	licentiates	licentious	licentiously	licentiousness	lichee	lichees	lichen	lichened	lichening	lichenins	lichenoid	lichenous	lichens	lichi	lichis	licht	lichting	licit	licitation	licitly	lick	licked	licker	lickers	lickety	licking	lickings	licks	licorice	licorices	lictor	lictors	lid	lidar	lidded	lidding	lidless	lido	lidos	lids	lie	liechtenstein	lied	lieder	lief	liefer	liefest	liefly	liege	liegeman	liegemen	lieges	lien	lienable	lienal	lienee	lienholder	lienor	liens	lienteries	lier	liers	lies	lieu	lieut	lieutenancies	lieutenancy	lieutenant	lieutenants	life	lifeblood	lifeboat	lifeboats	lifebuoy	lifeful	lifeguard	lifeguards	lifeless	lifelessly	lifelessness	lifelike	lifelikeness	lifeline	lifelines	lifelong	lifer	lifers	lifesaver	lifesavers	lifesaving	lifespan	lifestyle	lifestyles	lifetime	lifetimes	lifeway	lifework	lifeworks	lift	liftable	lifted	lifter	lifters	lifting	liftman	liftmen	liftoff	liftoffs	lifts	ligament	ligamentary	ligamentous	ligaments	ligate	ligated	ligates	ligating	ligation	ligations	ligature	ligatured	ligatures	ligaturing	liger	light	lighted	lighten	lightened	lightener	lighteners	lightening	lightens	lighter	lighterage	lightered	lightering	lighters	lightest	lightface	lightfaced	lightfingered	lightfooted	lightful	lightheaded	lighthearted	lightheartedly	lightheartedness	lighthouse	lighthouses	lighting	lightings	lightish	lightly	lightmindedness	lightness	lightning	lightnings	lights	lightship	lightships	lightsome	lightweight	lightweights	lightyears	ligneous	lignification	lignifications	lignified	lignifies	lignify	lignifying	lignin	lignins	lignite	lignites	lignitic	lignum	lignums	likability	likable	likableness	like	likeable	liked	likelier	likeliest	likelihood	likelihoods	likely	liken	likened	likeness	likenesses	likening	likens	liker	likers	likes	likest	likewise	liking	likings	lilac	lilacs	lilied	lilies	lilliput	lilliputian	lilliputians	lilliputs	lilly	lilt	lilted	lilting	lilts	lily	lim	lima	limacons	limas	limb	limbeck	limbed	limber	limbered	limberer	limberest	limbering	limberly	limberness	limbers	limbic	limbier	limbing	limbless	limbo	limbos	limbs	limburger	limby	lime	limeade	limeades	limed	limekiln	limekilns	limelight	limelights	limens	limerick	limericks	limes	limestone	limestones	limewater	limey	limeys	limier	limiest	liminal	liminess	liming	limit	limitable	limitation	limitations	limitative	limited	limitedly	limitedness	limiteds	limiter	limiters	limiting	limitless	limitlessly	limits	limn	limned	limner	limners	limning	limns	limo	limonite	limonitic	limos	limousine	limousines	limp	limped	limper	limpers	limpest	limpet	limpets	limpid	limpidity	limpidly	limpidness	limping	limply	limpness	limps	limy	linable	linac	linacs	linage	linages	linchpin	linchpins	lincoln	linda	lindane	lindanes	linden	lindens	lindies	lindy	line	lineable	lineage	lineages	lineal	lineally	lineament	lineaments	linear	linearly	lineate	linebacker	linebackers	linecut	lined	linefeed	lineless	lineman	linemen	linen	linens	lineny	liner	liners	lines	linesman	linesmen	lineup	lineups	liney	ling	lingam	lingams	lingas	linger	lingered	lingerer	lingerers	lingerie	lingeries	lingering	lingeringly	lingers	lingier	lingo	lingoes	lings	lingua	lingual	lingually	linguals	linguine	linguines	linguini	linguinis	linguist	linguistic	linguistically	linguistics	linguists	lingula	linier	liniest	liniment	liniments	lining	linings	link	linkable	linkage	linkages	linkboy	linked	linker	linkers	linking	linkman	linkmen	links	linkup	linkups	linky	linnet	linnets	lino	linoleum	linoleums	linos	linotype	linotypes	lins	linseed	linseeds	linsey	linseys	lint	lintel	lintels	linter	linters	lintier	lintiest	lints	linty	linum	liny	lion	lioness	lionesses	lionhearted	lionise	lionization	lionize	lionized	lionizer	lionizers	lionizes	lionizing	lions	lip	lipase	lipectomies	lipid	lipids	lipless	lipolyses	lipoprotein	liposoluble	lipped	lipper	lippers	lippier	lippiest	lippiness	lipping	lippy	lipreading	lips	lipstick	lipsticks	liq	liquate	liquefacient	liquefaction	liquefactions	liquefactive	liquefiable	liquefied	liquefier	liquefiers	liquefies	liquefy	liquefying	liquescent	liqueur	liqueurs	liquid	liquidate	liquidated	liquidates	liquidating	liquidation	liquidations	liquidator	liquidators	liquidities	liquidity	liquidize	liquidized	liquidizes	liquidizing	liquidly	liquids	liquify	liquor	liquored	liquorice	liquoring	liquors	lira	liras	lire	lisbon	lisle	lisles	lisp	lisped	lisper	lispers	lisping	lispingly	lisps	lissom	lissome	lissomely	lissomeness	lissomly	list	listable	listed	listen	listened	listener	listeners	listening	listenings	listens	lister	listers	listing	listings	listless	listlessly	listlessness	lists	liszt	lit	litanies	litany	litchi	litchis	lite	liter	literacies	literacy	literal	literalism	literally	literalness	literals	literariness	literary	literate	literately	literates	literati	literatim	literature	literatures	liters	lites	lith	lithe	lithely	litheness	lither	lithesome	lithest	lithias	lithic	lithium	lithiums	litho	lithograph	lithographed	lithographer	lithographers	lithographic	lithographically	lithographing	lithographs	lithography	lithologic	lithology	lithos	lithosphere	lithotome	lithotomy	lithuania	lithuanian	lithuanians	litigable	litigant	litigants	litigate	litigated	litigates	litigating	litigation	litigations	litigator	litigators	litigiosity	litigious	litigiously	litigiousness	litmus	litmuses	litoral	litre	litres	lits	litten	litter	litterateur	litterateurs	litterbug	litterbugs	littered	litterer	litterers	littering	litters	littery	little	littleneck	littlenecks	littleness	littler	littles	littlest	littlish	littoral	littorals	liturgic	liturgical	liturgically	liturgies	liturgist	liturgists	liturgy	livability	livable	live	liveability	liveable	lived	livelier	liveliest	livelihood	livelihoods	livelily	liveliness	livelong	lively	liven	livened	livener	liveners	liveness	livening	livens	liver	livered	liveried	liveries	liverish	liverishness	liverpool	livers	liverwort	liverworts	liverwurst	liverwursts	livery	liveryman	liverymen	lives	livest	livestock	livetrap	livetraps	livid	lividities	lividity	lividly	lividness	liviers	living	livingly	livings	livlihood	livre	livres	lizard	lizards	ll	llama	llamas	llano	llanos	lo	loach	loaches	load	loadable	loaded	loader	loaders	loading	loadings	loads	loadstar	loadstone	loadstones	loaf	loafed	loafer	loafers	loafing	loafs	loam	loamed	loamier	loamiest	loaming	loams	loamy	loan	loanable	loaned	loaner	loaners	loaning	loanings	loans	loanshark	loansharking	loanword	loanwords	loath	loathe	loathed	loather	loathers	loathes	loathful	loathing	loathings	loathly	loathness	loathsome	loathsomely	loathsomeness	loaves	lob	lobar	lobbed	lobber	lobbers	lobbied	lobbies	lobbing	lobby	lobbyer	lobbyers	lobbying	lobbyism	lobbyisms	lobbyist	lobbyists	lobe	lobed	lobefin	lobelia	lobelias	lobes	loblollies	loblolly	lobo	lobos	lobotomies	lobotomize	lobotomized	lobotomizing	lobotomy	lobs	lobster	lobsters	lobular	lobule	lobules	loc	local	locale	locales	localising	localism	localisms	localist	localists	localite	localites	localities	locality	localization	localizations	localize	localized	localizer	localizes	localizing	locally	locals	locate	located	locater	locaters	locates	locating	location	locations	locative	locatives	locator	locators	loch	lochs	loci	lock	lockable	lockage	lockages	lockbox	lockboxes	locked	locker	lockers	locket	lockets	locking	lockjaw	lockjaws	lockless	locknut	locknuts	lockout	lockouts	locks	locksmith	locksmiths	lockstep	locksteps	lockup	lockups	loco	locoed	locoes	locoing	locoism	locoisms	locomote	locomoted	locomotes	locomoting	locomotion	locomotive	locomotives	locomotor	locos	locoweed	locoweeds	locus	locust	locusts	locution	locutions	locutory	lode	loden	lodes	lodestar	lodestars	lodestone	lodge	lodgeable	lodged	lodgement	lodgements	lodger	lodgers	lodges	lodging	lodgings	lodgment	lodgments	lodicules	loess	loesses	loessial	loft	lofted	lofter	lofters	loftier	loftiest	loftily	loftiness	lofting	loftless	lofts	lofty	log	logan	loganberries	loganberry	logans	logarithm	logarithmic	logarithmical	logarithms	logbook	logbooks	loge	loges	logged	logger	loggerhead	loggerheads	loggers	loggia	loggias	loggie	loggier	logging	loggings	loggy	logia	logic	logical	logically	logician	logicians	logicize	logicized	logicizes	logicizing	logics	logier	logiest	logily	loginess	logistic	logistical	logistically	logistician	logisticians	logistics	logjam	logjams	logo	logogram	logorrhea	logos	logotype	logotypes	logotypies	logroll	logrolled	logrolling	logrolls	logs	logway	logways	logwood	logwoods	logy	loin	loincloth	loincloths	loins	loiter	loitered	loiterer	loiterers	loitering	loiteringly	loiters	loll	lolled	loller	lollers	lollies	lolling	lollipop	lollipops	lollop	lolloped	lolloping	lollops	lolls	lolly	lollygag	lollygags	lollypop	lollypops	london	londoner	londoners	lone	lonelier	loneliest	lonelily	loneliness	lonely	loneness	loner	loners	lonesome	lonesomely	lonesomeness	lonesomes	long	longboat	longboats	longbow	longbows	longed	longer	longers	longes	longest	longevities	longevity	longhair	longhaired	longhairs	longhand	longhorn	longhorns	longing	longingly	longings	longish	longitude	longitudes	longitudinal	longitudinally	longline	longlines	longly	longness	longrun	longs	longship	longships	longshoreman	longshoremen	longshot	longstanding	longsuffering	longtime	longue	longues	longways	longwise	loo	loofa	loofah	loofahs	loofas	loofs	look	looked	looker	lookers	looking	lookout	lookouts	looks	lookup	lookups	loom	loomed	looming	looms	loon	looney	loonier	loonies	looniest	looniness	loons	loony	loop	looped	looper	loopers	loophole	loopholes	loopholing	loopier	looping	loops	loopy	loos	loose	loosed	loosely	loosen	loosened	loosener	looseners	looseness	loosening	loosens	looser	looses	loosest	loosing	loot	looted	looter	looters	looting	loots	lop	lope	loped	loper	lopers	lopes	loping	lopped	lopper	loppers	loppier	lopping	loppy	lops	lopsided	lopsidedly	lopsidedness	loquacious	loquaciously	loquaciousness	loquacity	loquat	loquats	loran	lorans	lord	lorded	lording	lordings	lordlier	lordliest	lordliness	lordling	lordlings	lordly	lords	lordship	lordships	lore	lores	lorgnette	lorgnettes	lories	loris	lorises	lorn	lornness	lorries	lorry	lory	losable	lose	loser	losers	loses	losing	losingly	losings	loss	losses	lossy	lost	lostness	lot	loth	lothario	lotharios	lothsome	lotion	lotions	lotos	lots	lotted	lotteries	lottery	lotting	lotto	lottos	lotus	lotuses	loud	louden	loudened	loudening	loudens	louder	loudest	loudish	loudlier	loudliest	loudly	loudmouth	loudmouthed	loudmouths	loudness	loudspeaker	loudspeakers	lough	louie	louies	louis	louise	louisiana	louisianan	louisianans	louisianian	louisianians	louisville	lounge	lounged	lounger	loungers	lounges	lounging	loungy	loup	loupe	louped	loupes	louping	loups	lour	lours	loury	louse	loused	louses	lousier	lousiest	lousily	lousiness	lousing	lousy	lout	louted	louting	loutish	loutishly	loutishness	louts	louver	louvered	louvers	louvre	louvres	lovable	lovableness	lovably	lovage	lovages	love	loveable	loveably	lovebird	lovebirds	loved	loveless	lovelessly	lovelessness	lovelier	lovelies	loveliest	lovelily	loveliness	lovelorn	lovely	lovemaking	lover	loverly	lovers	loves	lovesick	lovesickness	lovevines	loving	lovingly	low	lowborn	lowboy	lowboys	lowbred	lowbrow	lowbrows	lowdown	lowdowns	lowed	lower	lowercase	lowerclassman	lowered	lowering	loweringly	lowermost	lowers	lowery	lowest	lowing	lowings	lowish	lowland	lowlander	lowlands	lowlier	lowliest	lowlife	lowlifes	lowliness	lowly	lowness	lownesses	lows	lox	loxes	loxing	loyal	loyaler	loyalest	loyalism	loyalisms	loyalist	loyalists	loyally	loyalness	loyalties	loyalty	lozenge	lozenges	lpm	lr	luau	luaus	lubber	lubberly	lubbers	lube	lubes	lubricant	lubricants	lubricate	lubricated	lubricates	lubricating	lubrication	lubrications	lubricator	lubricators	lubricity	lubricous	lucence	lucencies	lucency	lucent	lucently	lucern	lucerne	luces	lucia	lucid	lucidities	lucidity	lucidly	lucidness	lucifer	lucifers	lucille	lucite	luck	lucked	luckie	luckier	luckies	luckiest	luckily	luckiness	lucking	luckless	lucks	lucky	lucrative	lucratively	lucrativeness	lucre	lucres	lucubrate	lucubrated	lucubrates	lucubrating	lucubration	lucubrations	lucy	ludicrous	ludicrously	ludicrousness	ludwig	luff	luffed	luffing	luffs	lug	luge	luges	luggage	luggages	lugged	lugger	luggers	luggies	lugging	lugs	lugubrious	lugubriously	lugubriousness	luke	lukewarm	lukewarmly	lukewarmness	lull	lullabied	lullabies	lullaby	lullabying	lulled	lulling	lullingly	lulls	lulu	lulus	lumbago	lumbagos	lumbar	lumbars	lumber	lumbered	lumberer	lumberers	lumbering	lumberjack	lumberjacks	lumberman	lumbermen	lumbers	lumberyard	lumberyards	lumen	lumens	lumina	luminal	luminance	luminaries	luminary	luminesce	luminesced	luminescence	luminescent	luminesces	luminescing	luminiferous	luminists	luminosity	luminous	luminously	lummox	lummoxes	lump	lumped	lumpen	lumpens	lumper	lumpers	lumpfish	lumpier	lumpiest	lumpily	lumpiness	lumping	lumpish	lumps	lumpy	luna	lunacies	lunacy	lunar	lunaria	lunarian	lunarians	lunars	lunas	lunate	lunatic	lunatically	lunatics	lunation	lunations	lunch	lunched	luncheon	luncheonette	luncheonettes	luncheons	luncher	lunchers	lunches	lunching	lunchroom	lunchrooms	lunchtime	lune	lunes	lunet	lunets	lunette	lunettes	lung	lunge	lunged	lungee	lunger	lungers	lunges	lungfish	lungfishes	lunging	lungs	lunier	lunies	luniest	lunk	lunker	lunkers	lunkhead	lunkheads	lunks	luny	lupin	lupine	lupines	lupins	lupus	lupuses	lurch	lurched	lurcher	lurchers	lurches	lurching	lure	lured	lurer	lurers	lures	lurid	luridly	luridness	luring	luringly	lurk	lurked	lurker	lurkers	lurking	lurks	luscious	lusciously	lusciousness	lush	lushed	lusher	lushes	lushest	lushing	lushly	lushness	lust	lusted	luster	lustered	lustering	lusterless	lusters	lustful	lustfully	lustfulness	lustier	lustiest	lustily	lustiness	lusting	lustral	lustre	lustred	lustres	lustring	lustrous	lustrum	lusts	lusty	lutanist	lutanists	lute	luteal	luted	lutenist	lutenists	lutes	lutetium	luteum	luther	lutheran	lutheranism	lutherans	luting	lutings	lutist	lutists	lux	luxations	luxe	luxembourg	luxes	luxuriance	luxuriant	luxuriantly	luxuriate	luxuriated	luxuriates	luxuriating	luxuriation	luxuries	luxurious	luxuriously	luxuriousness	luxury	lycanthrope	lycanthropies	lycanthropy	lycee	lycees	lyceum	lyceums	lychee	lychees	lye	lyes	lying	lyingly	lyings	lymph	lymphatic	lymphatically	lymphocyte	lymphocytes	lymphocytic	lymphoid	lymphomas	lymphosarcoma	lymphosarcomas	lymphs	lynch	lynched	lyncher	lynchers	lynches	lynching	lynchings	lynx	lynxes	lyonnaise	lyrate	lyrated	lyrately	lyre	lyrebird	lyrebirds	lyres	lyric	lyrical	lyrically	lyricism	lyricisms	lyricist	lyricists	lyricize	lyricized	lyricizes	lyricizing	lyrics	lyriform	lyrism	lyrisms	lyrist	lyrists	lysed	lysergic	lyses	lysin	lysine	lysing	lysins	ma	mac	macabre	macadam	macadamize	macadamized	macadamizes	macadamizing	macadams	macaque	macaques	macaroni	macaronies	macaronis	macaroon	macaroons	macaw	macaws	mace	maced	macedonia	macedonian	macedonians	macer	macerate	macerated	macerater	maceraters	macerates	macerating	maceration	macerator	macerators	macers	maces	mach	machete	machetes	machiavellian	machiavellianism	machiavellians	machicolation	machicolations	machina	machinability	machinable	machinate	machinated	machination	machinations	machinator	machine	machineable	machined	machinelike	machineries	machinery	machines	machining	machinist	machinists	machinize	machinized	machinizing	machismo	machismos	macho	machos	machree	machrees	machs	macing	macintosh	macintoshes	mack	mackerel	mackerels	mackinaw	mackinaws	mackintosh	mackintoshes	macks	macle	macrame	macrames	macro	macrobiotic	macrobiotics	macrocephalic	macrocephalous	macrocephaly	macrocosm	macrocosmic	macrocosms	macrocyte	macroeconomic	macroeconomics	macromania	macromolecule	macron	macrons	macros	macroscopic	macroscopical	macroscopically	macrostructural	macrostructure	macs	macula	macular	maculas	maculate	maculated	maculates	maculating	maculation	maculations	mad	madagascar	madam	madame						
na	nab	nabbed	nabbing	nabob	nabobery	nabobism	nabobisms	nabobs	nabs	nacelle	nacelles	nacre	nacred	nacreous	nacres	nadir	nadirs	nae	nag	nagasaki	nagged	nagger	naggers	nagging	nags	nahuatl	nahuatls	naiad	naiades	naiads	naif	naifs	nail	nailed	nailer	nailers	nailhead	nailheads	nailing	nails	nailset	nailsets	nainsook	nairobi	naive	naively	naiveness	naivest	naivete	naivetes	naiveties	naivety	naked	nakeder	nakedest	nakedly	nakedness	nam	namable	name	nameable	named	nameless	namelessly	namely	nameplate	nameplates	namer	namers	names	namesake	namesakes	naming	nan	nance	nances	nancy	nankeen	nankeens	nanking	nankins	nannie	nannies	nanny	nanograms	nanosecond	nanoseconds	nanowatt	nanowatts	nap	napalm	napalmed	napalming	napalms	nape	naperies	napery	napes	naphtha	naphthalene	naphthas	naphthols	naphthous	napkin	napkins	naples	napless	napoleon	napoleonic	napoleons	napped	napper	nappers	nappes	nappie	nappier	nappies	napping	nappy	naps	narc	narcissi	narcissism	narcissist	narcissistic	narcissistically	narcissists	narcissus	narcissuses	narco	narcohypnoses	narcohypnosis	narcolepsies	narcolepsy	narcoleptic	narcomania	narcomata	narcos	narcosis	narcotherapies	narcotherapy	narcotic	narcotically	narcotics	narcotine	narcotism	narcotization	narcotize	narcotized	narcotizes	narcotizing	narcs	nard	nares	naris	nark	narked	narking	narks	narrate	narrated	narrater	narraters	narrates	narrating	narration	narrations	narrative	narratives	narrator	narrators	narrow	narrowed	narrower	narrowest	narrowing	narrowish	narrowly	narrowness	narrows	narthex	narthexes	narwal	narwals	narwhal	narwhales	narwhals	nary	nasa	nasal	nasalise	nasalities	nasality	nasalization	nasalize	nasalized	nasalizes	nasalizing	nasally	nasals	nascence	nascences	nascencies	nascency	nascent	nashville	nasoscope	nastier	nastiest	nastily	nastiness	nasturtium	nasturtiums	nasty	natal	natalities	natality	natally	natant	natantly	natation	natatory	nates	nathless	nation	national	nationalism	nationalist	nationalistic	nationalistically	nationalists	nationalities	nationality	nationalization	nationalizations	nationalize	nationalized	nationalizes	nationalizing	nationally	nationals	nationhood	nationless	nations	nationwide	native	natively	natives	nativism	nativisms	nativist	nativists	nativities	nativity	natl	nato	natriums	natron	natrons	natter	nattered	nattering	natters	nattier	nattiest	nattily	nattiness	natty	natural	naturalism	naturalist	naturalistic	naturalists	naturalization	naturalizations	naturalize	naturalized	naturalizes	naturalizing	naturally	naturalness	naturals	nature	natured	naturedly	naturel	natureopathy	natures	naturopathic	naturopathy	naugahyde	naught	naughtier	naughtiest	naughtily	naughtiness	naughts	naughty	nausea	nauseam	nauseants	nauseas	nauseate	nauseated	nauseates	nauseating	nauseatingly	nauseation	nauseous	nauseously	nauseousness	naut	nautch	nautches	nautical	nautically	nautili	nautilus	nautiluses	navaho	navahoes	navahos	navajo	navajos	naval	nave	navel	navels	naves	navies	navigability	navigable	navigably	navigate	navigated	navigates	navigating	navigation	navigational	navigator	navigators	navvies	navvy	navy	nay	nays	nazareth	nazi	nazified	nazifies	nazify	nazifying	naziism	nazis	nazism	ne	neanderthal	neanderthals	neap	neapolitan	neapolitans	neaps	near	nearby	neared	nearer	nearest	nearing	nearliest	nearly	nearness	nears	nearsighted	nearsightedly	nearsightedness	neat	neaten	neatened	neatening	neatens	neater	neatest	neath	neatherd	neatherds	neatly	neatness	neats	neb	nebbish	nebbishes	nebraska	nebraskan	nebraskans	nebs	nebula	nebulae	nebular	nebulas	nebule	nebulise	nebulize	nebulized	nebulizer	nebulizers	nebulizes	nebulizing	nebulosities	nebulosity	nebulous	nebulously	necessaries	necessarily	necessariness	necessary	necessitate	necessitated	necessitates	necessitating	necessities	necessitous	necessitously	necessity	neck	neckband	neckbands	necked	neckerchief	neckerchiefs	neckerchieves	necking	neckings	necklace	necklaces	neckless	neckline	necklines	necks	necktie	neckties	neckwear	neckwears	necrologies	necrology	necromancer	necromancers	necromancy	necrophile	necrophilia	necrophilic	necrophilism	necrophilous	necrophobia	necropolis	necropolises	necrose	necrosis	necrotic	necrotically	necrotize	nectar	nectarine	nectarines	nectars	nectary	nee	need	needed	needer	needers	needful	needfulness	needfuls	needier	neediest	needily	neediness	needing	needle	needled	needlepoint	needlepoints	needler	needlers	needles	needless	needlessly	needlessness	needlework	needleworker	needling	needlings	needs	needy	nefarious	nefariously	nefariousness	negate	negated	negater	negaters	negates	negating	negation	negations	negative	negatived	negatively	negativeness	negatives	negativing	negativism	negativistic	negativity	negator	negators	negatrons	neglect	neglected	neglecter	neglectful	neglectfully	neglectfulness	neglecting	neglector	neglects	negligee	negligees	negligence	negligent	negligently	negligible	negligibly	negotiability	negotiable	negotiant	negotiants	negotiate	negotiated	negotiates	negotiating	negotiation	negotiations	negotiator	negotiators	negotiatory	negotiatress	negotiatrix	negotiatrixes	negritude	negro	negroes	negroid	negroids	negus	neguses	nehemiah	nehru	neigh	neighbor	neighbored	neighborhood	neighborhoods	neighboring	neighborliness	neighborly	neighbors	neighed	neighing	neighs	neither	nelson	nelsons	nematode	nematodes	nembutal	nemeses	nemesis	neoclassic	neoclassical	neoclassically	neoclassicism	neocolonial	neocolonialism	neocolonialist	neocolonialists	neocolonially	neodymium	neolith	neoliths	neologic	neologies	neologism	neologisms	neology	neomorphs	neomycin	neomycins	neon	neonatal	neonatally	neonate	neonates	neonatology	neoned	neons	neophobia	neophobic	neophyte	neophytes	neoplasia	neoplasm	neoplasms	neoplastic	neoprene	neoprenes	neotenies	neoteny	neoteric	neoterics	nepal	nepalese	nepenthe	nepenthes	nephew	nephews	nephrectomy	nephrite	nephrites	nephritic	nephritis	nephritises	nephron	nephrons	nepotic	nepotism	nepotisms	nepotist	nepotistic	nepotistical	nepotistically	nepotists	neptune	neptunian	neptunium	nerd	nerds	nereid	nereides	nereids	nereis	nerts	nertz	nervate	nervation	nerve	nerved	nerveless	nervelessly	nervelessness	nerves	nervier	nerviest	nervily	nervine	nervines	nerviness	nerving	nervings	nervosa	nervosities	nervosity	nervous	nervously	nervousness	nervy	nescient	nescients	ness	nest	nested	nester	nesters	nesting	nestings	nestle	nestled	nestler	nestlers	nestles	nestlike	nestling	nestlings	nestor	nestors	nests	net	nether	netherlands	nethermost	netless	netlike	nets	netsuke	netsukes	nettable	nettably	netted	netter	nettier	netting	nettings	nettle	nettled	nettler	nettlers	nettles	nettlesome	nettlier	nettliest	nettling	nettly	netty	network	networked	networking	networks	neural	neuralgia	neuralgias	neuralgic	neurally	neurasthenia	neurasthenias	neurasthenic	neurasthenically	neurasthenics	neuritic	neuritis	neuritises	neurobiology	neurogram	neurological	neurologically	neurologies	neurologist	neurologists	neurologize	neurologized	neurology	neuromotor	neuromuscular	neuron	neuronal	neurone	neurones	neuronic	neurons	neuropath	neuropathy	neurophysiologic	neurophysiological	neurophysiologically	neurophysiology	neuropsychiatric	neuropsychiatry	neuropsychology	neuroscience	neurosensory	neuroses	neurosis	neurosurgeon	neurosurgeries	neurosurgery	neurosurgical	neurotic	neurotically	neuroticism	neurotics	neurotoxic	neurotoxicity	neurotoxin	neurotransmitter	neurotransmitters	neurovascular	neuter	neutered	neutering	neuters	neutral	neutralism	neutralist	neutralistic	neutralists	neutralities	neutrality	neutralization	neutralizations	neutralize	neutralized	neutralizer	neutralizers	neutralizes	neutralizing	neutrally	neutrals	neutrino	neutrinos	neutron	neutrons	neutrophil	neutrophils	nevada	nevadan	nevadans	nevadians	never	nevermore	nevertheless	nevi	nevoid	nevus	new	newark	newborn	newborns	newcastle	newcomer	newcomers	newel	newels	newer	newest	newfangled	newfashioned	newfound	newfoundland	newish	newly	newlywed	newlyweds	newmown	newness	newnesses	newport	news	newsboy	newsboys	newsbreak	newscast	newscaster	newscasters	newscasts	newsdealer	newsdealers	newsgirl	newsgirls	newsier	newsies	newsiest	newsiness	newsletter	newsletters	newsman	newsmen	newspaper	newspaperman	newspapermen	newspapers	newspaperwoman	newspaperwomen	newspeak	newspeaks	newsprint	newsreel	newsreels	newsrooms	newsstand	newsstands	newsweek	newswoman	newswomen	newsworthiness	newsworthy	newsy	newt	newton	newtonian	newtons	newts	next	nextdoor	nextly	nexus	nexuses	niacin	niacinamide	niacins	niagara	nib	nibbed	nibble	nibbled	nibbler	nibblers	nibbles	nibbling	niblick	niblicks	nibs	nicaragua	nicaraguan	nicaraguans	nice	nicely	niceness	nicer	nicest	niceties	nicety	niche	niched	niches	niching	nicholas	nick	nicked	nickel	nickeled	nickeling	nickelled	nickelodeon	nickelodeons	nickels	nicker	nickered	nickering	nickers	nicking	nickle	nickles	nicknack	nicknacks	nickname	nicknamed	nicknames	nicknaming	nicks	nicotine	nicotines	nicotinic	nictate	nictated	nictates	nictating	nictation	nictitate	nictitated	nictitates	nictitating	nictitation	niece	nieces	nielsen	nietzsche	niftier	niftiest	nifty	nigeria	nigerian	nigerians	niggard	niggarded	niggarding	niggardliness	niggardly	niggards	nigger	niggers	niggle	niggled	niggler	nigglers	niggles	niggling	nigglingly	nigglings	nigh	nighed	nigher	nighest	nighing	nighness	nighs	night	nightcap	nightcaps	nightclothes	nightclub	nightclubs	nightcrawler	nightcrawlers	nightdress	nighter	nighters	nightfall	nightfalls	nightgown	nightgowns	nighthawk	nighthawks	nightie	nighties	nightingale	nightingales	nightjar	nightjars	nightlong	nightly	nightman	nightmare	nightmares	nightmarish	nightmen	nightrider	nightriders	nights	nightshade	nightshades	nightshirt	nightshirts	nightspot	nightspots	nightstand	nightstands	nightstick	nighttime	nighttimes	nightwalker	nightwalkers	nightwear	nighty	nigritude	nihil	nihilism	nihilisms	nihilist	nihilistic	nihilistically	nihilists	nihilities	nihility	nihils	nijinsky	nil	nile	nill	nilled	nilling	nills	nils	nim	nimbi	nimble	nimbleness	nimbler	nimblest	nimbly	nimbus	nimbused	nimbuses	nimrods	nims	nincompoop	nincompoops	nine	ninefold	ninepin	ninepins	nines	nineteen	nineteens	nineteenth	nineteenths	nineties	ninetieth	ninetieths	ninety	ninnies	ninny	ninnyish	ninon	ninth	ninthly	ninths	niobium	niobiums	nip	nipped	nipper	nippers	nippier	nippiest	nippily	nipping	nipple	nipples	nippon	nipponese	nippy	nips	nirvana	nirvanas	nirvanic	nisei	niseis	nisi	nit	niter	niters	nitpick	nitpicked	nitpicker	nitpickers	nitpicking	nitpicks	nitrate	nitrated	nitrates	nitrating	nitration	nitrators	nitre	nitres	nitric	nitride	nitrification	nitrified	nitrifies	nitrify	nitrifying	nitrile	nitrite	nitrites	nitritoid	nitro	nitrocellulose	nitrocellulosic	nitrogen	nitrogenous	nitrogens	nitroglycerin	nitroglycerine	nitros	nitrous	nits	nittier	nitty	nitwit	nitwits	nix	nixed	nixes	nixie	nixies	nixing	nixon	nixy	nj	nm	no	noah	nob	nobbier	nobbily	nobble	nobbled	nobbler	nobblers	nobbles	nobbling	nobby	nobel	nobelist	nobelists	nobelium	nobeliums	nobilities	nobility	noble	nobleman	noblemen	nobleness	nobler	nobles	noblesse	noblesses	noblest	noblewoman	noblewomen	nobly	nobodies	nobody	nobs	nock	nocked	nocking	nocks	noctambulation	noctambulism	noctambulist	noctambulistic	nocturn	nocturnal	nocturnally	nocturne	nocturnes	nocturns	nocuous	nod	nodal	nodally	nodded	nodder	nodders	noddies	nodding	noddle	noddles	noddy	node	nodes	nods	nodular	nodule	nodules	nodus	noel	noels	noes	noesis	noetic	nog	noggin	noggings	noggins	noggs	nogs	nohow	noir	noire	noires	noise	noised	noiseless	noiselessly	noiselessness	noisemaker	noisemakers	noises	noisier	noisiest	noisily	noisiness	noising	noisome	noisomely	noisy	nolle	nolo	nom	nomad	nomadic	nomadically	nomadism	nomadisms	nomads	nome	nomenclature	nomenclatures	nominal	nominally	nominals	nominate	nominated	nominately	nominates	nominating	nomination	nominations	nominative	nominatively	nominatives	nominator	nominators	nominee	nominees	nomism	nomisms	nomogram	nomograms	nomograph	nomography	noms	non	nonabrasive	nonabrasively	nonabrasiveness	nonabsolute	nonabsolutely	nonabsoluteness	nonabsorbable	nonabsorbent	nonabsorbents	nonabstainer	nonabstainers	nonacademic	nonacademics	nonacceptance	nonacid	nonactive	nonactives	nonadaptive	nonaddicting	nonaddictive	nonadhesive	nonadjacent	nonadjustable	nonadministrative	nonadministratively	nonadmission	nonadmissions	nonadult	nonadults	nonadvantageous	nonadvantageously	nonaffiliated	nonaffilliated	nonage	nonagenarian	nonagenarians	nonages	nonaggression	nonagon	nonagons	nonagreement	nonagricultural	nonalcoholic	nonaligned	nonalignment	nonallergenic	nonanalytic	nonappearance	nonappearances	nonapplicable	nonaquatic	nonassertive	nonassertively	nonassimilation	nonathletic	nonattendance	nonattributive	nonattributively	nonauthoritative	nonauthoritatively	nonautomated	nonautomatic	nonbasic	nonbeing	nonbeings	nonbeliever	nonbelievers	nonbelligerent	nonbelligerents	nonbending	nonbreakable	noncancellable	noncancerous	noncarbonated	noncarnivorous	noncasual	noncausal	noncausally	nonce	noncelestial	noncellular	noncentral	noncentrally	nonces	nonchalance	nonchalant	nonchalantly	nonchargeable	noncivilized	nonclassical	nonclassically	nonclerical	nonclerically	nonclinical	nonclinically	noncoagulating	noncohesive	noncohesively	noncohesiveness	noncollapsable	noncollapsible	noncollectible	noncom	noncombat	noncombatant	noncombatants	noncombining	noncombustible	noncombustibles	noncommercial	noncommercially	noncommissioned	noncommittal	noncommittally	noncommunicable	noncommunicative	noncommunist	noncommunists	noncompeting	noncompetitive	noncompliance	noncomplying	noncompulsory	noncoms	nonconciliatory	nonconclusive	nonconclusively	nonconclusiveness	nonconcurrence	nonconcurrent	nonconcurrently	nonconducting	nonconductive	nonconductor	nonconductors	nonconfidence	nonconfidential	nonconflicting	nonconforming	nonconformism	nonconformist	nonconformists	nonconformity	noncongealing	nonconnective	nonconsecutive	nonconsecutively	nonconsenting	nonconstructive	nonconstructively	nonconsumption	noncontagious	noncontemporary	noncontiguous	noncontiguously	noncontinuance	noncontinuation	noncontinuous	noncontraband	noncontrabands	noncontradictory	noncontrastable	noncontributing	noncontributory	noncontrollable	noncontrollably	noncontroversial	noncontroversially	nonconventional	nonconvergent	nonconversant	nonconvertible	noncooperation	noncooperative	noncorroborative	noncorroding	noncorrosive	noncreative	noncriminal	noncritical	noncrystalline	noncumulative	noncyclical	nondairy	nondeductible	nondeliveries	nondelivery	nondemocratic	nondemonstrable	nondenominational	nondepartmental	nondependence	nondescript	nondescriptive	nondestructive	nondestructively	nondestructiveness	nondetachable	nondevelopment	nondifferentiation	nondiplomatic	nondirectional	nondisciplinary	nondisclosure	nondiscriminating	nondiscrimination	nondiscriminatory	nondistribution	nondivisible	nondomesticated	nondramatic	nondrinker	nondrinkers	nondrying	none	noneducable	noneducational	noneffective	noneffervescent	noneffervescently	nonego	nonegos	nonelastic	nonelection	nonelective	nonelectric	nonelectrically	noneligible	nonemotional	nonemotionally	nonempirical	nonempirically	nonempty	nonenforceable	nonenforcement	nonentities	nonentity	nonequal	nonequals	nonequivalent	nonequivalents	nones	nonessential	nonessentials	nonesuch	nonesuches	nonetheless	nonethical	nonethically	nonethicalness	nonevent	nonevents	nonexchangeable	nonexclusive	nonexempt	nonexistence	nonexistent	nonexisting	nonexpendable	nonexplosive	nonexplosives	nonexportable	nonextant	nonextraditable	nonfactual	nonfactually	nonfascist	nonfascists	nonfat	nonfatal	nonfatally	nonfederal	nonfederated	nonferrous	nonfiction	nonfictional	nonfilterable	nonflammable	nonflexible	nonflowering	nonfood	nonforfeitable	nonforfeiture	nonforfeitures	nonformation	nonfreezing	nonfulfillment	nonfunctional	nongaseous	nongovernmental	nongregarious	nonhabitable	nonhabitual	nonhabituating	nonhazardous	nonhereditary	nonhero	nonheroes	nonhistoric	nonhomogeneous	nonhuman	nonidentical	nonidentities	nonidentity	nonideological	nonidiomatic	nonimmunities	nonimmunity	noninclusive	nonincriminating	nonindependent	noninductive	nonindulgence	nonindustrial	noninfectious	noninflammable	noninflammatory	noninflected	noninflectional	noninformative	noninformatively	noninhabitable	noninheritable	noninjurious	noninjuriously	noninjuriousness	noninstinctive	noninstinctual	noninstitutional	nonintellectual	nonintellectually	nonintellectuals	noninterchangeable	noninterfaced	noninterference	nonintersecting	nonintervention	noninterventional	noninterventionist	noninterventionists	nonintoxicant	nonintoxicants	nonintoxicating	nonirritant	nonirritating	nonjudicial	nonkosher	nonlegal	nonlethal	nonlife	nonlinear	nonliterary	nonliturgical	nonliturgically	nonliving	nonlocals	nonlogical	nonluminous	nonmagnetic	nonmalicious	nonmaliciously	nonmalignant	nonman	nonmaterial	nonmaterialistic	nonmathematical	nonmeasurable	nonmechanical	nonmechanically	nonmechanistic	nonmember	nonmembers	nonmembership	nonmen	nonmetal	nonmetallic	nonmetals	nonmigratory	nonmilitant	nonmilitantly	nonmilitants	nonmilitarily	nonmilitary	nonmoral	nonmotile	nonmystical	nonmystically	nonmythical	nonmythically	nonnative	nonnatives	nonnatural	nonnavigable	nonnegotiable	nonnitrogenous	nonnumeric	nonnutritious	nonobedience	nonobjective	nonobligatory	nonobservance	nonoccurrence	nonodorous	nonofficial	nonofficially	nonoperable	nonoperative	nonorganic	nonorthodox	nonowner	nonowners	nonparallel	nonparametric	nonparasitic	nonpareil	nonpareils	nonparliamentary	nonparticipant	nonparticipating	nonparticipation	nonpartisan	nonpartisans	nonpasserine	nonpaying	nonpayment	nonperformance	nonperishable	nonperishables	nonpermanent	nonpermeable	nonphysical	nonphysically	nonphysiological	nonphysiologically	nonpigmented	nonplus	nonplused	nonpluses	nonplusing	nonplussed	nonplusses	nonplussing	nonpoetic	nonpoisonous	nonpolitical	nonpolitically	nonporous	nonpossession	nonpossessive	nonpossessively	nonpossessiveness	nonprecious	nonpredatory	nonpredictable	nonprejudicial	nonprejudicially	nonprescriptive	nonpreservable	nonprocedural	nonproduction	nonproductive	nonprofessional	nonprofit	nonprofitable	nonproliferation	nonproportional	nonproportionally	nonproprietaries	nonproprietary	nonprotective	nonprotectively	nonproven	nonpunishable	nonracial	nonradical	nonradioactive	nonrational	nonrationally	nonreactive	nonreader	nonreaders	nonrealistic	nonreciprocal	nonreciprocally	nonreciprocals	nonrecognition	nonrecoverable	nonrecurrent	nonrecurring	nonredeemable	nonrefillable	nonreflective	nonregimented	nonregistered	nonrelational	nonreligious	nonremunerative	nonrenewable	nonrepresentational	nonrepresentative	nonresidence	nonresident	nonresidential	nonresidents	nonresidual	nonresistant	nonresistants	nonrestricted	nonrestrictive	nonreturnable	nonreversible	nonrhythmic	nonrigid	nonsalable	nonsalaried	nonscheduled	nonscholastic	nonscientific	nonseasonal	nonsecret	nonsecretly	nonsectarian	nonsecular	nonsegregated	nonselective	nonsense	nonsenses	nonsensical	nonsensically	nonsensitive	nonsexist	nonsexists	nonsexual	nonsexually	nonsignificant	nonsinkable	nonsked	nonskid	nonskilled	nonslip	nonsmoker	nonsmokers	nonsmoking	nonsocial	nonspeaking	nonspecialist	nonspecialists	nonspecialized	nonspecific	nonspiritual	nonsporting	nonstable	nonstaining	nonstandard	nonstandardized	nonstick	nonstimulating	nonstop	nonstrategic	nonstriker	nonstrikers	nonstriking	nonstructural	nonstructurally	nonsubmissive	nonsubmissively	nonsubmissiveness	nonsubscriber	nonsubscribers	nonsuccess	nonsuccessive	nonsuccessively	nonsuccessiveness	nonsuches	nonsupport	nonsuppression	nonsupression	nonsurgical	nonsusceptibility	nonsusceptible	nonsustaining	nonsymbolic	nonsystematic	nontaxable	nontechnical	nontechnically	nontemporal	nontemporally	nontenure	nontheatrical	nonthinking	nontoxic	nontraditional	nontraditionally	nontransferable	nontransparent	nontropical	nontruths	nontypical	nontypically	nonunified	nonuniform	nonunion	nonunionist	nonunions	nonunited	nonuple	nonuser	nonusers	nonvascular	nonvascularly	nonvenomous	nonverbal	nonviable	nonviolation	nonviolence	nonviolent	nonviolently	nonvirulent	nonvisible	nonvisual	nonvisually	nonvocal	nonvocational	nonvolatile	nonvoluntary	nonvoter	nonvoters	nonvoting	nonwhite	nonwhites	nonworker	nonworkers	nonworking	nonyielding	nonzebra	nonzero	noodle	noodled	noodles	noodling	nook	nookies	nooks	nooky	noon	noonday	noondays	nooning	noonings	noons	noontide	noontides	noontime	noontimes	noose	noosed	nooser	noosers	nooses	noosing	nope	nor	nordic	norfolk	norm	norma	normal	normalacy	normalcies	normalcy	normalities	normality	normalization	normalize	normalized	normalizer	normalizes	normalizing	normally	normals	norman	normandy	normans	normative	normatively	normativeness	normed	norms	norse	norseman	norsemen	north	northbound	northeast	northeaster	northeasterly	northeastern	northeasterner	northeasters	northeastward	northeastwardly	northeners	norther	northerly	northern	northerner	northerners	northernmost	northerns	northers	northings	norths	northward	northwardly	northwards	northwest	northwesterly	northwestern	northwestward	northwestwardly	norway	norwegian	norwegians	nos	nose	nosebag	nosebags	nosebands	nosebleed	nosebleeds	nosed	nosedive	nosegay	nosegays	nosepiece	noses	nosey	nosh	noshed	nosher	noshers	noshes	noshing	nosier	nosiest	nosily	nosiness	nosing	nosings	nosology	nostalgia	nostalgic	nostalgically	noster	nostril	nostrils	nostrum	nostrums	nosy	not	nota	notabilities	notability	notable	notables	notably	notal	notandum	notarial	notarially	notaries	notarization	notarizations	notarize	notarized	notarizes	notarizing	notary	notaryship	notate	notated	notates	notating	notation	notational	notations	notch	notched	notcher	notchers	notches	notching	notchy	note	notebook	notebooks	notecases	noted	notedly	notepad	notepads	notepaper	noter	noters	notes	noteworthily	noteworthiness	noteworthy	nothing	nothingness	nothings	notice	noticeable	noticeably	noticed	notices	noticing	notifiable	notification	notifications	notified	notifier	notifiers	notifies	notify	notifying	noting	notion	notional	notionally	notions	notochord	notochordal	notorieties	notoriety	notorious	notoriously	notre	nots	notwithstanding	nougat	nougats	nought	noughts	noumena	noumenal	noumenon	noun	nounal	nounally	nouns	nourish	nourished	nourisher	nourishers	nourishes	nourishing	nourishment	nourishments	nous	nouveau	nouveaux	nouvelle	nova	novae	novas	novel	novelette	novelettes	novelising	novelist	novelistic	novelists	novelization	novelizations	novelize	novelized	novelizes	novelizing	novella	novellas	novelle	novelly	novels	novelties	novelty	november	november's	novena	novenae	novenas	novice	novices	novitiate	novitiates	novo	novocain	novocaine	now	nowadays	noway	noways	nowhere	nowheres	nowise	nows	noxious	noxiously	noxiousness	nozzle	nozzles	nth	nu	nuance	nuanced	nuances	nub	nubbier	nubbiest	nubbin	nubbins	nubble	nubbles	nubblier	nubbly	nubby	nubia	nubias	nubile	nubilities	nubility	nubs	nucleal	nuclear	nucleate	nucleated	nucleates	nucleating	nucleation	nucleations	nucleator	nucleators	nuclei	nucleic	nuclein	nucleolar	nucleoli	nucleolus	nucleon	nucleonic	nucleonics	nucleons	nucleoplasm	nucleoplasmatic	nucleoprotein	nucleus	nucleuses	nude	nudely	nudeness	nuder	nudes	nudest	nudge	nudged	nudger	nudgers	nudges	nudging	nudie	nudies	nudism	nudisms	nudist	nudists	nudities	nudity	nudnick	nudnicks	nudnik	nudniks	nudum	nugatory	nugget	nuggets	nuggety	nuisance	nuisances	nuke	nukes	null	nulled	nullification	nullifications	nullificator	nullified	nullifier	nullifiers	nullifies	nullify	nullifying	nulling	nulliparous	nullities	nullity	nullo	nulls	numb	numbed	number	numberable	numbered	numberer	numberers	numbering	numberings	numberless	numbers	numbest	numbing	numbingly	numbly	numbness	numbs	numbskull	numerable	numerably	numeral	numerals	numerary	numerate	numerated	numerates	numerating	numeration	numerations	numerator	numerators	numeric	numerical	numerically	numerics	numerologist	numerologists	numerology	numerous	numerously	numerousness	numinous	numismatic	numismatics	numismatist	numismatists	nummary	nummular	numskull	numskulls	nun	nuncio	nuncios	nuncle	nuncles	nuncupative	nunneries	nunnery	nunnish	nunquam	nuns	nuptial	nuptially	nuptials	nurse	nursed	nurseling	nursemaid	nursemaids	nurser	nurseries	nursers	nursery	nurserymaid	nurserymaids	nurseryman	nurserymen	nurses	nursing	nursings	nursling	nurslings	nurture	nurtured	nurturer	nurturers	nurtures	nurturing	nut	nutations	nutcracker	nutcrackers	nutgrasses	nuthatch	nuthatches	nuthouse	nuthouses	nutlet	nutlets	nutlike	nutmeat	nutmeats	nutmeg	nutmegs	nutpick	nutpicks	nutria	nutrias	nutrient	nutrients	nutriment	nutrimental	nutriments	nutrition	nutritional	nutritionally	nutritionist	nutritionists	nutritious	nutritiously	nutritiousness	nutritive	nutritively	nuts	nutshell	nutshells	nutted	nutter	nutters	nuttier	nuttiest	nuttily	nuttiness	nutting	nutty	nuzzle	nuzzled	nuzzler	nuzzlers	nuzzles	nuzzling	ny	nybble	nybbles	nybblize	nylon	nylons	nymph	nymphal	nymphet	nymphets	nympho	nympholepsies	nympholeptic	nymphomania	nymphomaniac	nymphomaniacal	nymphomaniacs	nymphos	nymphs	nystagmus	oaf	oafish	oafishly	oafishness	oafs	oak	oaken	oakland	oaks	oakum	oakums	oar	oared	oaring	oarless	oarlock	oarlocks	oars	oarsman	oarsmanship	oarsmen	oases	oasis	oasts	oat	oatcake	oatcakes	oaten	oater	oaters	oath	oaths	oatmeal	oatmeals	oats	ob	obbligati	obbligato	obbligatos	obduction	obduracies	obduracy	obdurate	obdurated	obdurately	obdurateness	obdurating	obduration	obeah	obeahisms	obeahs	obedience	obedient	obediential	obediently	obeisance	obeisances	obeisant	obeli	obelisk	obelisks	obese	obesely	obesities	obesity	obey	obeyable	obeyed	obeyer	obeyers	obeying	obeys	obfuscable	obfuscate	obfuscated	obfuscates	obfuscating	obfuscation	obfuscator	obfuscators	obfuscatory	obi	obis	obit	obiter	obits	obituaries	obituary	object	objectant	objected	objecting	objection	objectionability	objectionable	objectional	objections	objective	objectively	objectiveness	objectives	objectivity	objector	objectors	objects	objicient	objuration	objurgate	objurgated	objurgates	objurgating	objurgation	objurgations	oblate	oblately	oblates	oblation	oblational	oblations	obligability	obligable	obligate	obligated	obligates	obligating	obligation	obligational	obligations	obligato	obligator	obligatorily	obligatory	oblige	obliged	obligee	obligement	obliger	obligers	obliges	obliging	obligingly	oblique	obliqued	obliquely	obliqueness	obliques	obliquities	obliquity	obliterate	obliterated	obliterates	obliterating	obliteration	obliterations	obliterative	obliterator	obliterators	oblivion	oblivions	oblivious	obliviously	obliviousness	oblong	oblongata	oblongatae	oblongatas	oblongish	oblongly	oblongness	oblongs	obloquies	obloquy	obnoxiety	obnoxious	obnoxiously	obnoxiousness	oboe	oboes	oboist	oboists	obol	obols	obovate	obovoid	obscene	obscenely	obscener	obscenest	obscenities	obscenity	obscura	obscurant	obscuranticism	obscurantism	obscurantist	obscurantists	obscuras	obscuration	obscurative	obscure	obscured	obscurely	obscurement	obscurer	obscurers	obscures	obscurest	obscuring	obscurities	obscurity	obsequies	obsequious	obsequiously	obsequiousness	obsequy	observable	observably	observance	observances	observant	observation	observational	observations	observatories	observatory	observe	observed	observer	observers	observes	observing	observingly	obsess	obsessed	obsesses	obsessing	obsessingly	obsession	obsessional	obsessions	obsessive	obsessively	obsessiveness	obsessor	obsessors	obsidian	obsidians	obsolescence	obsolescent	obsolescently	obsolete	obsoleted	obsoletely	obsoleteness	obsoletes	obsoleting	obstacle	obstacles	obstetric	obstetrical	obstetrically	obstetrician	obstetricians	obstetrics	obstinacies	obstinacy	obstinate	obstinately	obstinateness	obstreperous	obstreperously	obstreperousness	obstruct	obstructed	obstructer	obstructers	obstructing	obstruction	obstructionism	obstructionist	obstructionists	obstructions	obstructive	obstructively	obstructiveness	obstructor	obstructors	obstructs	obtain	obtainable	obtained	obtainer	obtainers	obtaining	obtainment	obtains	obtrude	obtruded	obtruder	obtruders	obtrudes	obtruding	obtrusion	obtrusions	obtrusive	obtrusively	obtrusiveness	obtuse	obtusely	obtuseness	obtuser	obtusest	obverse	obverses	obverting	obverts	obviate	obviated	obviates	obviating	obviation	obviator	obviators	obvious	obviously	obviousness	ocarina	ocarinas	occasion	occasional	occasionally	occasioned	occasioning	occasions	occident	occidental	occidentals	occidents	occipital	occiputs	occlude	occluded	occludes	occluding	occlusal	occlusion	occlusions	occlusive	occult	occulted	occulter	occulters	occulting	occultism	occultist	occultists	occultly	occults	occupance	occupancies	occupancy	occupant	occupants	occupation	occupational	occupationally	occupations	occupative	occupiable	occupied	occupier	occupiers	occupies	occupy	occupying	occur	occurred	occurrence	occurrences	occurrent	occurring	occurs	ocean	oceanarium	oceanaut	oceanauts	oceangoing	oceanic	oceanid	oceanographer	oceanographers	oceanographic	oceanography	oceanologist	oceanologists	oceanology	oceans	oceanside	ocellus	ocelot	ocelots	ocher	ochered	ocherous	ochers	ochery	ochre	ochred	ochreous	ochres	ochring	ochroid	ochrous	ocotillos	octad	octads	octagon	octagonal	octagonally	octagons	octal	octane	octanes	octangle	octangles	octant	octants	octaval	octave	octaves	octavo	octavos	octet	octets	octette	octettes	october	october's	octogenarian	octogenarians	octopi	octopod	octopodes	octopods	octopus	octopuses	octoroon	octoroons	octothorpe	octuple	octupled	octuples	octuplet	octuplets	octupling	octuply	octyl	octyls	ocular	ocularly	oculars	oculi	oculist	oculists	oculus	ocurred	od	odalisk	odalisks	odalisque	odd	oddball	oddballs	odder	oddest	oddish	oddities	oddity	oddly	oddment	oddments	oddness	oddnesses	odds	ode	odeon	odeons	odes	odessa	odic	odin	odious	odiously	odiousness	odium	odiums	odometer	odometers	odor	odorant	odorants	odored	odorful	odoriferous	odoriferously	odoriferousness	odorize	odorized	odorizes	odorizing	odorless	odorous	odorously	odors	odour	odourful	odours	odyl	odysseus	odyssey	odysseys	oedipal	oedipus	oedipuses	oenology	oenomel	oenophile	oenophiles	oersted	oesophagus	oeuvre	oeuvres	of	ofay	ofays	off	offal	offals	offbeat	offbeats	offcast	offcut	offed	offence	offences	offend	offended	offender	offenders	offending	offends	offense	offenseless	offenses	offensive	offensively	offensiveness	offensives	offer	offerable	offered	offeree	offerer	offerers	offering	offerings	offeror	offerors	offers	offertories	offertory	offhand	offhanded	offhandedly	offhandedness	office	officeholder	officeholders	officer	officered	officering	officers	offices	official	officialdom	officialism	officialities	officiality	officially	officials	officiant	officiants	officiary	officiate	officiated	officiates	officiating	officiation	officiator	officinal	officio	officious	officiously	officiousness	offing	offings	offish	offishness	offload	offloaded	offloading	offloads	offpay	offprint	offprints	offs	offset	offsets	offsetting	offshoot	offshoots	offshore	offside	offspring	offsprings	offstage	offtrack	oft	often	oftener	oftenest	oftenness	ofter	oftest	ofttimes	ogee	ogees	ogham	oghamic	ogive	ogle	ogled	ogler	oglers	ogles	ogling	ogre	ogreish	ogreism	ogres	ogress	ogresses	ogrish	ogrishly	oh	ohed	ohing	ohio	ohioan	ohioans	ohm	ohmage	ohmages	ohmic	ohmmeter	ohmmeters	ohms	oho	ohs	oidium	oil	oilbirds	oilcan	oilcans	oilcloth	oilcloths	oilcup	oilcups	oiled	oiler	oilers	oilheating	oilhole	oilier	oiliest	oilily	oiliness	oiling	oilman	oilmen	oilpapers	oils	oilseed	oilseeds	oilskin	oilskins	oilstone	oilstones	oilway	oily	oink	oinked	oinking	oinks	ointment	ointments	ojibwa	ojibwas	ok	okapi	okapis	okay	okayed	okaying	okays	okeydoke	okie	okinawa	oklahoma	oklahoman	oklahomans	okra	okras	old	olden	older	oldest	oldie	oldies	oldish	oldness	oldnesses	olds	oldsmobile	oldster	oldsters	oldstyles	ole	oleaginous	oleander	oleanders	oleo	oleomargarine	oleoresin	oleos	oles	oleums	olfaction	olfactology	olfactometer	olfactometric	olfactometry	olfactory	olibanums	oligarch	oligarchic	oligarchical	oligarchies	oligarchs	oligarchy	oligocene	oligopoly	olio	olios	olive	oliver	olives	olivia	olivine	olivines	olivinic	olla	ollas	ologies	ologist	ologists	olograph	ology	olympia	olympiad	olympiads	olympian	olympians	olympic	olympics	olympus	omaha	omahas	ombre	ombres	ombudsman	ombudsmen	omega	omegas	omelet	omelets	omelette	omelettes	omen	omened	omens	omicron	omicrons	omikron	ominous	ominously	ominousness	omissible	omission	omissions	omissive	omit	omits	omittance	omitted	omitting	omniarchs	omnibus	omnibuses	omnicompetence	omnicompetent	omnific	omnipotence	omnipotent	omnipotently	omnipresence	omnipresent	omniscience	omniscient	omnisciently	omnium	omnivore	omnivores	omnivorous	omnivorously	omnivorousness	omphali	omphalos	oms	on	onager	onagers	onanism	onanisms	onanist	onanistic	onanists	onboard	once	onces	oncogenic	oncograph	oncologic	oncological	oncologies	oncology	oncoming	oncomings	one	onefold	oneida	oneidas	oneness	onenesses	onerosities	onerosity	onerous	onerously	onerousness	onery	ones	oneself	onetime	ongoing	onion	onions	onionskin	onionskins	onlooker	onlookers	only	onomatopoeia	onomatopoeic	onomatopoeically	onomatopoetic	onomatopoetically	onomatopoieses	onomatopoiesis	onondaga	onondagas	onrush	onrushes	onrushing	onset	onsets	onshore	onside	onslaught	onslaughts	onstage	ontario	onto	ontogeneses	ontogenesis	ontogenetic	ontogenetically	ontogenic	ontogenically	ontogenies	ontogeny	ontological	ontologies	ontology	onus	onuses	onward	onwards	onyx	onyxes	oocyte	oodles	ooh	oohed	oohing	oohs	oolite	oolith	oology	oolong	oolongs	oomph	oomphs	oops	ooze	oozed	oozes	oozier	ooziest	oozily	ooziness	oozing	oozy	opacification	opacified	opacifies	opacify	opacifying	opacities	opacity	opal	opalesced	opalescence
nappier	nappies	napping	nappy	naps	narc	narcissi	narcissism	narcissist	narcissistic	narcissistically	narcissists	narcissus	narcissuses	narco	narcohypnoses	narcohypnosis	narcolepsies	narcolepsy	narcoleptic	narcomania	narcomata	narcos	narcosis	narcotherapies	narcotherapy	narcotic	narcotically	narcotics	narcotine	narcotism	narcotization	narcotize	narcotized	narcotizes	narcotizing	narcs	nard	nares	naris	nark	narked	narking	narks	narrate	narrated	narrater	narraters	narrates	narrating	narration	narrations	narrative	narratives	narrator	narrators	narrow	narrowed	narrower	narrowest	narrowing	narrowish	narrowly	narrowness	narrows	narthex	narthexes	narwal	narwals	narwhal	narwhales	narwhals	nary	nasa	nasal	nasalise	nasalities	nasality	nasalization	nasalize	nasalized	nasalizes	nasalizing	nasally	nasals	nascence	nascences	nascencies	nascency	nascent	nashville	nasoscope	nastier	nastiest	nastily	nastiness	nasturtium	nasturtiums	nasty	natal	natalities	natality	natally	natant	natantly	natation	natatory	nates	nathless	nation	national	nationalism	nationalist	nationalistic	nationalistically	nationalists	nationalities	nationality	nationalization	nationalizations	nationalize	nationalized	nationalizes	nationalizing	nationally	nationals	nationhood	nationless	nations	nationwide	native	natively	natives	nativism	nativisms	nativist	nativists	nativities	nativity	natl	nato	natriums	natron	natrons	natter	nattered	nattering	natters	nattier	nattiest	nattily	nattiness	natty	natural	naturalism	naturalist	naturalistic	naturalists	naturalization	naturalizations	naturalize	naturalized	naturalizes	naturalizing	naturally	naturalness	naturals	nature	natured	naturedly	naturel	natureopathy	natures	naturopathic	naturopathy	naugahyde	naught	naughtier	naughtiest	naughtily	naughtiness	naughts	naughty	nausea	nauseam	nauseants	nauseas	nauseate	nauseated	nauseates	nauseating	nauseatingly	nauseation	nauseous	nauseously	nauseousness	naut	nautch	nautches	nautical	nautically	nautili	nautilus	nautiluses	navaho	navahoes	navahos	navajo	navajos	naval	nave	navel	navels	naves	navies	navigability	navigable	navigably	navigate	navigated	navigates	navigating	navigation	navigational	navigator	navigators	navvies	navvy	navy	nay	nays	nazareth	nazi	nazified	nazifies	nazify	nazifying	naziism	nazis	nazism	ne	neanderthal	neanderthals	neap	neapolitan	neapolitans	neaps	near	nearby	neared	nearer	nearest	nearing	nearliest	nearly	nearness	nears	nearsighted	nearsightedly	nearsightedness	neat	neaten	neatened	neatening	neatens	neater	neatest	neath	neatherd	neatherds	neatly	neatness	neats	neb	nebbish	nebbishes	nebraska	nebraskan	nebraskans	nebs	nebula	nebulae	nebular	nebulas	nebule	nebulise	nebulize	nebulized	nebulizer	nebulizers	nebulizes	nebulizing	nebulosities	nebulosity	nebulous	nebulously	necessaries	necessarily	necessariness	necessary	necessitate	necessitated	necessitates	necessitating	necessities	necessitous	necessitously	necessity	neck	neckband	neckbands	necked	neckerchief	neckerchiefs	neckerchieves	necking	neckings	necklace	necklaces	neckless	neckline	necklines	necks	necktie	neckties	neckwear	neckwears	necrologies	necrology	necromancer	necromancers	necromancy	necrophile	necrophilia	necrophilic	necrophilism	necrophilous	necrophobia	necropolis	necropolises	necrose	necrosis	necrotic	necrotically	necrotize	nectar	nectarine	nectarines	nectars	nectary	nee	need	needed	needer	needers	needful	needfulness	needfuls	needier	neediest	needily	neediness	needing	needle	needled	needlepoint	needlepoints	needler	needlers	needles	needless	needlessly	needlessness	needlework	needleworker	needling	needlings	needs	needy	nefarious	nefariously	nefariousness	negate	negated	negater	negaters	negates	negating	negation	negations	negative	negatived	negatively	negativeness	negatives	negativing	negativism	negativistic	negativity	negator	negators	negatrons	neglect	neglected	neglecter	neglectful	neglectfully	neglectfulness	neglecting	neglector	neglects	negligee	negligees	negligence	negligent	negligently	negligible	negligibly	negotiability	negotiable	negotiant	negotiants	negotiate	negotiated	negotiates	negotiating	negotiation	negotiations	negotiator	negotiators	negotiatory	negotiatress	negotiatrix	negotiatrixes	negritude	negro	negroes	negroid	negroids	negus	neguses	nehemiah	nehru	neigh	neighbor	neighbored	neighborhood	neighborhoods	neighboring	neighborliness	neighborly	neighbors	neighed	neighing	neighs	neither	nelson	nelsons	nematode	nematodes	nembutal	nemeses	nemesis	neoclassic	neoclassical	neoclassically	neoclassicism	neocolonial	neocolonialism	neocolonialist	neocolonialists	neocolonially	neodymium	neolith	neoliths	neologic	neologies	neologism	neologisms	neology	neomorphs	neomycin	neomycins	neon	neonatal	neonatally	neonate	neonates	neonatology	neoned	neons	neophobia	neophobic	neophyte	neophytes	neoplasia	neoplasm	neoplasms	neoplastic	neoprene	neoprenes	neotenies	neoteny	neoteric	neoterics	nepal	nepalese	nepenthe	nepenthes	nephew	nephews	nephrectomy	nephrite	nephrites	nephritic	nephritis	nephritises	nephron	nephrons	nepotic	nepotism	nepotisms	nepotist	nepotistic	nepotistical	nepotistically	nepotists	neptune	neptunian	neptunium	nerd	nerds	nereid	nereides	nereids	nereis	nerts	nertz	nervate	nervation	nerve	nerved	nerveless	nervelessly	nervelessness	nerves	nervier	nerviest	nervily	nervine	nervines	nerviness	nerving	nervings	nervosa	nervosities	nervosity	nervous	nervously	nervousness	nervy	nescient	nescients	ness	nest	nested	nester	nesters	nesting	nestings	nestle	nestled	nestler	nestlers	nestles	nestlike	nestling	nestlings	nestor	nestors	nests	net	nether	netherlands	nethermost	netless	netlike	nets	netsuke	netsukes	nettable	nettably	netted	netter	nettier	netting	nettings	nettle	nettled	nettler	nettlers	nettles	nettlesome	nettlier	nettliest	nettling	nettly	netty	network	networked	networking	networks	neural	neuralgia	neuralgias	neuralgic	neurally	neurasthenia	neurasthenias	neurasthenic	neurasthenically	neurasthenics	neuritic	neuritis	neuritises	neurobiology	neurogram	neurological	neurologically	neurologies	neurologist	neurologists	neurologize	neurologized	neurology	neuromotor	neuromuscular	neuron	neuronal	neurone	neurones	neuronic	neurons	neuropath	neuropathy	neurophysiologic	neurophysiological	neurophysiologically	neurophysiology	neuropsychiatric	neuropsychiatry	neuropsychology	neuroscience	neurosensory	neuroses	neurosis	neurosurgeon	neurosurgeries	neurosurgery	neurosurgical	neurotic	neurotically	neuroticism	neurotics	neurotoxic	neurotoxicity	neurotoxin	neurotransmitter	neurotransmitters	neurovascular	neuter	neutered	neutering	neuters	neutral	neutralism	neutralist	neutralistic	neutralists	neutralities	neutrality	neutralization	neutralizations	neutralize	neutralized	neutralizer	neutralizers	neutralizes	neutralizing	neutrally	neutrals	neutrino	neutrinos	neutron	neutrons	neutrophil	neutrophils	nevada	nevadan	nevadans	nevadians	never	nevermore	nevertheless	nevi	nevoid	nevus	new	newark	newborn	newborns	newcastle	newcomer	newcomers	newel	newels	newer	newest	newfangled	newfashioned	newfound	newfoundland	newish	newly	newlywed	newlyweds	newmown	newness	newnesses	newport	news	newsboy	newsboys	newsbreak	newscast	newscaster	newscasters	newscasts	newsdealer	newsdealers	newsgirl	newsgirls	newsier	newsies	newsiest	newsiness	newsletter	newsletters	newsman	newsmen	newspaper	newspaperman	newspapermen	newspapers	newspaperwoman	newspaperwomen	newspeak	newspeaks	newsprint	newsreel	newsreels	newsrooms	newsstand	newsstands	newsweek	newswoman	newswomen	newsworthiness	newsworthy	newsy	newt	newton	newtonian	newtons	newts	next	nextdoor	nextly	nexus	nexuses	niacin	niacinamide	niacins	niagara	nib	nibbed	nibble	nibbled	nibbler	nibblers	nibbles	nibbling	niblick	niblicks	nibs	nicaragua	nicaraguan	nicaraguans	nice	nicely	niceness	nicer	nicest	niceties	nicety	niche	niched	niches	niching	nicholas	nick	nicked	nickel	nickeled	nickeling	nickelled	nickelodeon	nickelodeons	nickels	nicker	nickered	nickering	nickers	nicking	nickle	nickles	nicknack	nicknacks	nickname	nicknamed	nicknames	nicknaming	nicks	nicotine	nicotines	nicotinic	nictate	nictated	nictates	nictating	nictation	nictitate	nictitated	nictitates	nictitating	nictitation	niece	nieces	nielsen	nietzsche	niftier	niftiest	nifty	nigeria	nigerian	nigerians	niggard	niggarded	niggarding	niggardliness	niggardly	niggards	nigger	niggers	niggle	niggled	niggler	nigglers	niggles	niggling	nigglingly	nigglings	nigh	nighed	nigher	nighest	nighing	nighness	nighs	night	nightcap	nightcaps	nightclothes	nightclub	nightclubs	nightcrawler	nightcrawlers	nightdress	nighter	nighters	nightfall	nightfalls	nightgown	nightgowns	nighthawk	nighthawks	nightie	nighties	nightingale	nightingales	nightjar	nightjars	nightlong	nightly	nightman	nightmare	nightmares	nightmarish	nightmen	nightrider	nightriders	nights	nightshade	nightshades	nightshirt	nightshirts	nightspot	nightspots	nightstand	nightstands	nightstick	nighttime	nighttimes	nightwalker	nightwalkers	nightwear	nighty	nigritude	nihil	nihilism	nihilisms	nihilist	nihilistic	nihilistically	nihilists	nihilities	nihility	nihils	nijinsky	nil	nile	nill	nilled	nilling	nills	nils	nim	nimbi	nimble	nimbleness	nimbler	nimblest	nimbly	nimbus	nimbused	nimbuses	nimrods	nims	nincompoop	nincompoops	nine	ninefold	ninepin	ninepins	nines	nineteen	nineteens	nineteenth	nineteenths	nineties	ninetieth	ninetieths	ninety	ninnies	ninny	ninnyish	ninon	ninth	ninthly	ninths	niobium	niobiums	nip	nipped	nipper	nippers	nippier	nippiest	nippily	nipping	nipple	nipples	nippon	nipponese	nippy	nips	nirvana	nirvanas	nirvanic	nisei	niseis	nisi	nit	niter	niters	nitpick	nitpicked	nitpicker	nitpickers	nitpicking	nitpicks	nitrate	nitrated	nitrates	nitrating	nitration	nitrators	nitre	nitres	nitric	nitride	nitrification	nitrified	nitrifies	nitrify	nitrifying	nitrile	nitrite	nitrites	nitritoid	nitro	nitrocellulose	nitrocellulosic	nitrogen	nitrogenous	nitrogens	nitroglycerin	nitroglycerine	nitros	nitrous	nits	nittier	nitty	nitwit	nitwits	nix	nixed	nixes	nixie	nixies	nixing	nixon	nixy	nj	nm	no	noah	nob	nobbier	nobbily	nobble	nobbled	nobbler	nobblers	nobbles	nobbling	nobby	nobel	nobelist	nobelists	nobelium	nobeliums	nobilities	nobility	noble	nobleman	noblemen	nobleness	nobler	nobles	noblesse	noblesses	noblest	noblewoman	noblewomen	nobly	nobodies	nobody	nobs	nock	nocked	nocking	nocks	noctambulation	noctambulism	noctambulist	noctambulistic	nocturn	nocturnal	nocturnally	nocturne	nocturnes	nocturns	nocuous	nod	nodal	nodally	nodded	nodder	nodders	noddies	nodding	noddle	noddles	noddy	node	nodes	nods	nodular	nodule	nodules	nodus	noel	noels	noes	noesis	noetic	nog	noggin	noggings	noggins	noggs	nogs	nohow	noir	noire	noires	noise	noised	noiseless	noiselessly	noiselessness	noisemaker	noisemakers	noises	noisier	noisiest	noisily	noisiness	noising	noisome	noisomely	noisy	nolle	nolo	nom	nomad	nomadic	nomadically	nomadism	nomadisms	nomads	nome	nomenclature	nomenclatures	nominal	nominally	nominals	nominate	nominated	nominately	nominates	nominating	nomination	nominations	nominative	nominatively	nominatives	nominator	nominators	nominee	nominees	nomism	nomisms	nomogram	nomograms	nomograph	nomography	noms	non	nonabrasive	nonabrasively	nonabrasiveness	nonabsolute	nonabsolutely	nonabsoluteness	nonabsorbable	nonabsorbent	nonabsorbents	nonabstainer	nonabstainers	nonacademic	nonacademics	nonacceptance	nonacid	nonactive	nonactives	nonadaptive	nonaddicting	nonaddictive	nonadhesive	nonadjacent	nonadjustable	nonadministrative	nonadministratively	nonadmission	nonadmissions	nonadult	nonadults	nonadvantageous	nonadvantageously	nonaffiliated	nonaffilliated	nonage	nonagenarian	nonagenarians	nonages	nonaggression	nonagon	nonagons	nonagreement	nonagricultural	nonalcoholic	nonaligned	nonalignment	nonallergenic	nonanalytic	nonappearance	nonappearances	nonapplicable	nonaquatic	nonassertive	nonassertively	nonassimilation	nonathletic	nonattendance	nonattributive	nonattributively	nonauthoritative	nonauthoritatively	nonautomated	nonautomatic	nonbasic	nonbeing	nonbeings	nonbeliever	nonbelievers	nonbelligerent	nonbelligerents	nonbending	nonbreakable	noncancellable	noncancerous	noncarbonated	noncarnivorous	noncasual	noncausal	noncausally	nonce	noncelestial	noncellular	noncentral	noncentrally	nonces	nonchalance	nonchalant	nonchalantly	nonchargeable	noncivilized	nonclassical	nonclassically	nonclerical	nonclerically	nonclinical	nonclinically	noncoagulating	noncohesive	noncohesively	noncohesiveness	noncollapsable	noncollapsible	noncollectible	noncom	noncombat	noncombatant	noncombatants	noncombining	noncombustible	noncombustibles	noncommercial	noncommercially	noncommissioned	noncommittal	noncommittally	noncommunicable	noncommunicative	noncommunist	noncommunists	noncompeting	noncompetitive	noncompliance	noncomplying	noncompulsory	noncoms	nonconciliatory	nonconclusive	nonconclusively	nonconclusiveness	nonconcurrence	nonconcurrent	nonconcurrently	nonconducting	nonconductive	nonconductor	nonconductors	nonconfidence	nonconfidential	nonconflicting	nonconforming	nonconformism	nonconformist	nonconformists	nonconformity	noncongealing	nonconnective	nonconsecutive	nonconsecutively	nonconsenting	nonconstructive	nonconstructively	nonconsumption	noncontagious	noncontemporary	noncontiguous	noncontiguously	noncontinuance	noncontinuation	noncontinuous	noncontraband	noncontrabands	noncontradictory	noncontrastable	noncontributing	noncontributory	noncontrollable	noncontrollably	noncontroversial	noncontroversially	nonconventional	nonconvergent	nonconversant	nonconvertible	noncooperation	noncooperative	noncorroborative	noncorroding	noncorrosive	noncreative	noncriminal	noncritical	noncrystalline	noncumulative	noncyclical	nondairy	nondeductible	nondeliveries	nondelivery	nondemocratic	nondemonstrable	nondenominational	nondepartmental	nondependence	nondescript	nondescriptive	nondestructive	nondestructively	nondestructiveness	nondetachable	nondevelopment	nondifferentiation	nondiplomatic	nondirectional	nondisciplinary	nondisclosure	nondiscriminating	nondiscrimination	nondiscriminatory	nondistribution	nondivisible	nondomesticated	nondramatic	nondrinker	nondrinkers	nondrying	none	noneducable	noneducational	noneffective	noneffervescent	noneffervescently	nonego	nonegos	nonelastic	nonelection	nonelective	nonelectric	nonelectrically	noneligible	nonemotional	nonemotionally	nonempirical	nonempirically	nonempty	nonenforceable	nonenforcement	nonentities	nonentity	nonequal	nonequals	nonequivalent	nonequivalents	nones	nonessential	nonessentials	nonesuch	nonesuches	nonetheless	nonethical	nonethically	nonethicalness	nonevent	nonevents	nonexchangeable	nonexclusive	nonexempt	nonexistence	nonexistent	nonexisting	nonexpendable	nonexplosive	nonexplosives	nonexportable	nonextant	nonextraditable	nonfactual	nonfactually	nonfascist	nonfascists	nonfat	nonfatal	nonfatally	nonfederal	nonfederated	nonferrous	nonfiction	nonfictional	nonfilterable	nonflammable	nonflexible	nonflowering	nonfood	nonforfeitable	nonforfeiture	nonforfeitures	nonformation	nonfreezing	nonfulfillment	nonfunctional	nongaseous	nongovernmental	nongregarious	nonhabitable	nonhabitual	nonhabituating	nonhazardous	nonhereditary	nonhero	nonheroes	nonhistoric	nonhomogeneous	nonhuman	nonidentical	nonidentities	nonidentity	nonideological	nonidiomatic	nonimmunities	nonimmunity	noninclusive	nonincriminating	nonindependent	noninductive	nonindulgence	nonindustrial	noninfectious	noninflammable	noninflammatory	noninflected	noninflectional	noninformative	noninformatively	noninhabitable	noninheritable	noninjurious	noninjuriously	noninjuriousness	noninstinctive	noninstinctual	noninstitutional	nonintellectual	nonintellectually	nonintellectuals	noninterchangeable	noninterfaced	noninterference	nonintersecting	nonintervention	noninterventional	noninterventionist	noninterventionists	nonintoxicant	nonintoxicants	nonintoxicating	nonirritant	nonirritating	nonjudicial	nonkosher	nonlegal	nonlethal	nonlife	nonlinear	nonliterary	nonliturgical	nonliturgically	nonliving	nonlocals	nonlogical	nonluminous	nonmagnetic	nonmalicious	nonmaliciously	nonmalignant	nonman	nonmaterial	nonmaterialistic	nonmathematical	nonmeasurable	nonmechanical	nonmechanically	nonmechanistic	nonmember	nonmembers	nonmembership	nonmen	nonmetal	nonmetallic	nonmetals	nonmigratory	nonmilitant	nonmilitantly	nonmilitants	nonmilitarily	nonmilitary	nonmoral	nonmotile	nonmystical	nonmystically	nonmythical	nonmythically	nonnative	nonnatives	nonnatural	nonnavigable	nonnegotiable	nonnitrogenous	nonnumeric	nonnutritious	nonobedience	nonobjective	nonobligatory	nonobservance	nonoccurrence	nonodorous	nonofficial	nonofficially	nonoperable	nonoperative	nonorganic	nonorthodox	nonowner	nonowners	nonparallel	nonparametric	nonparasitic	nonpareil	nonpareils	nonparliamentary	nonparticipant	nonparticipating	nonparticipation	nonpartisan	nonpartisans	nonpasserine	nonpaying	nonpayment	nonperformance	nonperishable	nonperishables	nonpermanent	nonpermeable	nonphysical	nonphysically	nonphysiological	nonphysiologically	nonpigmented	nonplus	nonplused	nonpluses	nonplusing	nonplussed	nonplusses	nonplussing	nonpoetic	nonpoisonous	nonpolitical	nonpolitically	nonporous	nonpossession	nonpossessive	nonpossessively	nonpossessiveness	nonprecious	nonpredatory	nonpredictable	nonprejudicial	nonprejudicially	nonprescriptive	nonpreservable	nonprocedural	nonproduction	nonproductive	nonprofessional	nonprofit	nonprofitable	nonproliferation	nonproportional	nonproportionally	nonproprietaries	nonproprietary	nonprotective	nonprotectively	nonproven	nonpunishable	nonracial	nonradical	nonradioactive	nonrational	nonrationally	nonreactive	nonreader	nonreaders	nonrealistic	nonreciprocal	nonreciprocally	nonreciprocals	nonrecognition	nonrecoverable	nonrecurrent	nonrecurring	nonredeemable	nonrefillable	nonreflective	nonregimented	nonregistered	nonrelational	nonreligious	nonremunerative	nonrenewable	nonrepresentational	nonrepresentative	nonresidence	nonresident	nonresidential	nonresidents	nonresidual	nonresistant	nonresistants	nonrestricted	nonrestrictive	nonreturnable	nonreversible	nonrhythmic	nonrigid	nonsalable	nonsalaried	nonscheduled	nonscholastic	nonscientific	nonseasonal	nonsecret	nonsecretly	nonsectarian	nonsecular	nonsegregated	nonselective	nonsense	nonsenses	nonsensical	nonsensically	nonsensitive	nonsexist	nonsexists	nonsexual	nonsexually	nonsignificant	nonsinkable	nonsked	nonskid	nonskilled	nonslip	nonsmoker	nonsmokers	nonsmoking	nonsocial	nonspeaking	nonspecialist	nonspecialists	nonspecialized	nonspecific	nonspiritual	nonsporting	nonstable	nonstaining	nonstandard	nonstandardized	nonstick	nonstimulating	nonstop	nonstrategic	nonstriker	nonstrikers	nonstriking	nonstructural	nonstructurally	nonsubmissive	nonsubmissively	nonsubmissiveness	nonsubscriber	nonsubscribers	nonsuccess	nonsuccessive	nonsuccessively	nonsuccessiveness	nonsuches	nonsupport	nonsuppression	nonsupression	nonsurgical	nonsusceptibility	nonsusceptible	nonsustaining	nonsymbolic	nonsystematic	nontaxable	nontechnical	nontechnically	nontemporal	nontemporally	nontenure	nontheatrical	nonthinking	nontoxic	nontraditional	nontraditionally	nontransferable	nontransparent	nontropical	nontruths	nontypical	nontypically	nonunified	nonuniform	nonunion	nonunionist	nonunions	nonunited	nonuple	nonuser	nonusers	nonvascular	nonvascularly	nonvenomous	nonverbal	nonviable	nonviolation	nonviolence	nonviolent	nonviolently	nonvirulent	nonvisible	nonvisual	nonvisually	nonvocal	nonvocational	nonvolatile	nonvoluntary	nonvoter	nonvoters	nonvoting	nonwhite	nonwhites	nonworker	nonworkers	nonworking	nonyielding	nonzebra	nonzero	noodle	noodled	noodles	noodling	nook	nookies	nooks	nooky	noon	noonday	noondays	nooning	noonings	noons	noontide	noontides	noontime	noontimes	noose	noosed	nooser	noosers	nooses	noosing	nope	nor	nordic	norfolk	norm	norma	normal	normalacy	normalcies	normalcy	normalities	normality	normalization	normalize	normalized	normalizer	normalizes	normalizing	normally	normals	norman	normandy	normans	normative	normatively	normativeness	normed	norms	norse	norseman	norsemen	north	northbound	northeast	northeaster	northeasterly	northeastern	northeasterner	northeasters	northeastward	northeastwardly	northeners	norther	northerly	northern	northerner	northerners	northernmost	northerns	northers	northings	norths	northward	northwardly	northwards	northwest	northwesterly	northwestern	northwestward	northwestwardly	norway	norwegian	norwegians	nos	nose	nosebag	nosebags	nosebands	nosebleed	nosebleeds	nosed	nosedive	nosegay	nosegays	nosepiece	noses	nosey	nosh	noshed	nosher	noshers	noshes	noshing	nosier	nosiest	nosily	nosiness	nosing	nosings	nosology	nostalgia	nostalgic	nostalgically	noster	nostril	nostrils	nostrum	nostrums	nosy	not	nota	notabilities	notability	notable	notables	notably	notal	notandum	notarial	notarially	notaries	notarization	notarizations	notarize	notarized	notarizes	notarizing	notary	notaryship	notate	notated	notates	notating	notation	notational	notations	notch	notched	notcher	notchers	notches	notching	notchy	note	notebook	notebooks	notecases	noted	notedly	notepad	notepads	notepaper	noter	noters	notes	noteworthily	noteworthiness	noteworthy	nothing	nothingness	nothings	notice	noticeable	noticeably	noticed	notices	noticing	notifiable	notification	notifications	notified	notifier	notifiers	notifies	notify	notifying	noting	notion	notional	notionally	notions	notochord	notochordal	notorieties	notoriety	notorious	notoriously	notre	nots	notwithstanding	nougat	nougats	nought	noughts	noumena	noumenal	noumenon	noun	nounal	nounally	nouns	nourish	nourished	nourisher	nourishers	nourishes	nourishing	nourishment	nourishments	nous	nouveau	nouveaux	nouvelle	nova	novae	novas	novel	novelette	novelettes	novelising	novelist	novelistic	novelists	novelization	novelizations	novelize	novelized	novelizes	novelizing	novella	novellas	novelle	novelly	novels	novelties	novelty	november	november's	novena	novenae	novenas	novice	novices	novitiate	novitiates	novo	novocain	novocaine	now	nowadays	noway	noways	nowhere	nowheres	nowise	nows	noxious	noxiously	noxiousness	nozzle	nozzles	nth	nu	nuance	nuanced	nuances	nub	nubbier	nubbiest	nubbin	nubbins	nubble	nubbles	nubblier	nubbly	nubby	nubia	nubias	nubile	nubilities	nubility	nubs	nucleal	nuclear	nucleate	nucleated	nucleates	nucleating	nucleation	nucleations	nucleator	nucleators	nuclei	nucleic	nuclein	nucleolar	nucleoli	nucleolus	nucleon	nucleonic	nucleonics	nucleons	nucleoplasm	nucleoplasmatic	nucleoprotein	nucleus	nucleuses	nude	nudely	nudeness	nuder	nudes	nudest	nudge	nudged	nudger	nudgers	nudges	nudging	nudie	nudies	nudism	nudisms	nudist	nudists	nudities	nudity	nudnick	nudnicks	nudnik	nudniks	nudum	nugatory	nugget	nuggets	nuggety	nuisance	nuisances	nuke	nukes	null	nulled	nullification	nullifications	nullificator	nullified	nullifier	nullifiers	nullifies	nullify	nullifying	nulling	nulliparous	nullities	nullity	nullo	nulls	numb	numbed	number	numberable	numbered	numberer	numberers	numbering	numberings	numberless	numbers	numbest	numbing	numbingly	numbly	numbness	numbs	numbskull	numerable	numerably	numeral	numerals	numerary	numerate	numerated	numerates	numerating	numeration	numerations	numerator	numerators	numeric	numerical	numerically	numerics	numerologist	numerologists	numerology	numerous	numerously	numerousness	numinous	numismatic	numismatics	numismatist	numismatists	nummary	nummular	numskull	numskulls	nun	nuncio	nuncios	nuncle	nuncles	nuncupative	nunneries	nunnery	nunnish	nunquam	nuns	nuptial	nuptially	nuptials	nurse	nursed	nurseling	nursemaid	nursemaids	nurser	nurseries	nursers	nursery	nurserymaid	nurserymaids	nurseryman	nurserymen	nurses	nursing	nursings	nursling	nurslings	nurture	nurtured	nurturer	nurturers	nurtures	nurturing	nut	nutations	nutcracker	nutcrackers	nutgrasses	nuthatch	nuthatches	nuthouse	nuthouses	nutlet	nutlets	nutlike	nutmeat	nutmeats	nutmeg	nutmegs	nutpick	nutpicks	nutria	nutrias	nutrient	nutrients	nutriment	nutrimental	nutriments	nutrition	nutritional	nutritionally	nutritionist	nutritionists	nutritious	nutritiously	nutritiousness	nutritive	nutritively	nuts	nutshell	nutshells	nutted	nutter	nutters	nuttier	nuttiest	nuttily	nuttiness	nutting	nutty	nuzzle	nuzzled	nuzzler	nuzzlers	nuzzles	nuzzling	ny	nybble	nybbles	nybblize	nylon	nylons	nymph	nymphal	nymphet	nymphets	nympho	nympholepsies	nympholeptic	nymphomania	nymphomaniac	nymphomaniacal	nymphomaniacs	nymphos	nymphs	nystagmus	oaf	oafish	oafishly	oafishness	oafs	oak	oaken	oakland	oaks	oakum	oakums	oar	oared	oaring	oarless	oarlock	oarlocks	oars	oarsman	oarsmanship	oarsmen	oases	oasis	oasts	oat	oatcake	oatcakes	oaten	oater	oaters	oath	oaths	oatmeal	oatmeals	oats	ob	obbligati	obbligato	obbligatos	obduction	obduracies	obduracy	obdurate	obdurated	obdurately	obdurateness	obdurating	obduration	obeah	obeahisms	obeahs	obedience	obedient	obediential	obediently	obeisance	obeisances	obeisant	obeli	obelisk	obelisks	obese	obesely	obesities	obesity	obey	obeyable	obeyed	obeyer	obeyers	obeying	obeys	obfuscable	obfuscate	obfuscated	obfuscates	obfuscating	obfuscation	obfuscator	obfuscators	obfuscatory	obi	obis	obit	obiter	obits	obituaries	obituary	object	objectant	objected	objecting	objection	objectionability	objectionable	objectional	objections	objective	objectively	objectiveness	objectives	objectivity	objector	objectors	objects	objicient	objuration	objurgate	objurgated	objurgates	objurgating	objurgation	objurgations	oblate	oblately	oblates	oblation	oblational	oblations	obligability	obligable	obligate	obligated	obligates	obligating	obligation	obligational	obligations	obligato	obligator	obligatorily	obligatory	oblige	obliged	obligee	obligement	obliger	obligers	obliges	obliging	obligingly	oblique	obliqued	obliquely	obliqueness	obliques	obliquities	obliquity	obliterate	obliterated	obliterates	obliterating	obliteration	obliterations	obliterative	obliterator	obliterators	oblivion	oblivions	oblivious	obliviously	obliviousness	oblong	oblongata	oblongatae	oblongatas	oblongish	oblongly	oblongness	oblongs	obloquies	obloquy	obnoxiety	obnoxious	obnoxiously	obnoxiousness	oboe	oboes	oboist	oboists	obol	obols	obovate	obovoid	obscene	obscenely	obscener	obscenest	obscenities	obscenity	obscura	obscurant	obscuranticism	obscurantism	obscurantist	obscurantists	obscuras	obscuration	obscurative	obscure	obscured	obscurely	obscurement	obscurer	obscurers	obscures	obscurest	obscuring	obscurities	obscurity	obsequies	obsequious	obsequiously	obsequiousness	obsequy	observable	observably	observance	observances	observant	observation	observational	observations	observatories	observatory	observe	observed	observer	observers	observes	observing	observingly	obsess	obsessed	obsesses	obsessing	obsessingly	obsession	obsessional	obsessions	obsessive	obsessively	obsessiveness	obsessor	obsessors	obsidian	obsidians	obsolescence	obsolescent	obsolescently	obsolete	obsoleted	obsoletely	obsoleteness	obsoletes	obsoleting	obstacle	obstacles	obstetric	obstetrical	obstetrically	obstetrician	obstetricians	obstetrics	obstinacies	obstinacy	obstinate	obstinately	obstinateness	obstreperous	obstreperously	obstreperousness	obstruct	obstructed	obstructer	obstructers	obstructing	obstruction	obstructionism	obstructionist	obstructionists	obstructions	obstructive	obstructively	obstructiveness	obstructor	obstructors	obstructs	obtain	obtainable	obtained	obtainer	obtainers	obtaining	obtainment	obtains	obtrude	obtruded	obtruder	obtruders	obtrudes	obtruding	obtrusion	obtrusions	obtrusive	obtrusively	obtrusiveness	obtuse	obtusely	obtuseness	obtuser	obtusest	obverse	obverses	obverting	obverts	obviate	obviated	obviates	obviating	obviation	obviator	obviators	obvious	obviously	obviousness	ocarina	ocarinas	occasion	occasional	occasionally	occasioned	occasioning	occasions	occident	occidental	occidentals	occidents	occipital	occiputs	occlude	occluded	occludes	occluding	occlusal	occlusion	occlusions	occlusive	occult	occulted	occulter	occulters	occulting	occultism	occultist	occultists	occultly	occults	occupance	occupancies	occupancy	occupant	occupants	occupation	occupational	occupationally	occupations	occupative	occupiable	occupied	occupier	occupiers	occupies	occupy	occupying	occur	occurred	occurrence	occurrences	occurrent	occurring	occurs	ocean	oceanarium	oceanaut	oceanauts	oceangoing	oceanic	oceanid	oceanographer	oceanographers	oceanographic	oceanography	oceanologist	oceanologists	oceanology	oceans	oceanside	ocellus	ocelot	ocelots	ocher	ochered	ocherous	ochers	ochery	ochre	ochred	ochreous	ochres	ochring	ochroid	ochrous	ocotillos	octad	octads	octagon	octagonal	octagonally	octagons	octal	octane	octanes	octangle	octangles	octant	octants	octaval	octave	octaves	octavo	octavos	octet	octets	octette	octettes	october	october's	octogenarian	octogenarians	octopi	octopod	octopodes	octopods	octopus	octopuses	octoroon	octoroons	octothorpe	octuple	octupled	octuples	octuplet	octuplets	octupling	octuply	octyl	octyls	ocular	ocularly	oculars	oculi	oculist	oculists	oculus	ocurred	od	odalisk	odalisks	odalisque	odd	oddball	oddballs	odder	oddest	oddish	oddities	oddity	oddly	oddment	oddments	oddness	oddnesses	odds	ode	odeon	odeons	odes	odessa	odic	odin	odious	odiously	odiousness	odium	odiums	odometer	odometers	odor	odorant	odorants	odored	odorful	odoriferous	odoriferously	odoriferousness	odorize	odorized	odorizes	odorizing	odorless	odorous	odorously	odors	odour	odourful	odours	odyl	odysseus	odyssey	odysseys	oedipal	oedipus	oedipuses	oenology	oenomel	oenophile	oenophiles	oersted	oesophagus	oeuvre	oeuvres	of	ofay	ofays	off	offal	offals	offbeat	offbeats	offcast	offcut	offed	offence	offences	offend	offended	offender	offenders	offending	offends	offense	offenseless	offenses	offensive	offensively	offensiveness	offensives	offer	offerable	offered	offeree	offerer	offerers	offering	offerings	offeror	offerors	offers	offertories	offertory	offhand	offhanded	offhandedly	offhandedness	office	officeholder	officeholders	officer	officered	officering	officers	offices	official	officialdom	officialism	officialities	officiality	officially	officials	officiant	officiants	officiary	officiate	officiated	officiates	officiating	officiation	officiator	officinal	officio	officious	officiously	officiousness	offing	offings	offish	offishness	offload	offloaded	offloading	offloads	offpay	offprint	offprints	offs	offset	offsets	offsetting	offshoot	offshoots	offshore	offside	offspring	offsprings	offstage	offtrack	oft	often	oftener	oftenest	oftenness	ofter	oftest	ofttimes	ogee	ogees	ogham	oghamic	ogive	ogle	ogled	ogler	oglers	ogles	ogling	ogre	ogreish	ogreism	ogres	ogress	ogresses	ogrish	ogrishly	oh	ohed	ohing	ohio	ohioan	ohioans	ohm	ohmage	ohmages	ohmic	ohmmeter	ohmmeters	ohms	oho	ohs	oidium	oil	oilbirds	oilcan	oilcans	oilcloth	oilcloths	oilcup	oilcups	oiled	oiler	oilers	oilheating	oilhole	oilier	oiliest	oilily	oiliness	oiling	oilman	oilmen	oilpapers	oils	oilseed	oilseeds	oilskin	oilskins	oilstone	oilstones	oilway	oily	oink	oinked	oinking	oinks	ointment	ointments	ojibwa	ojibwas	ok	okapi	okapis	okay	okayed	okaying	okays	okeydoke	okie	okinawa	oklahoma	oklahoman	oklahomans	okra	okras	old	olden	older	oldest	oldie	oldies	oldish	oldness	oldnesses	olds	oldsmobile	oldster	oldsters	oldstyles	ole	oleaginous	oleander	oleanders	oleo	oleomargarine	oleoresin	oleos	oles	oleums	olfaction	olfactology	olfactometer	olfactometric	olfactometry	olfactory	olibanums	oligarch	oligarchic	oligarchical	oligarchies	oligarchs	oligarchy	oligocene	oligopoly	olio	olios	olive	oliver	olives	olivia	olivine	olivines	olivinic	olla	ollas	ologies	ologist	ologists	olograph	ology	olympia	olympiad	olympiads	olympian	olympians	olympic	olympics	olympus	omaha	omahas	ombre	ombres	ombudsman	ombudsmen	omega	omegas	omelet	omelets	omelette	omelettes	omen	omened	omens	omicron	omicrons	omikron	ominous	ominously	ominousness	omissible	omission	omissions	omissive	omit	omits	omittance	omitted	omitting	omniarchs	omnibus	omnibuses	omnicompetence	omnicompetent	omnific	omnipotence	omnipotent	omnipotently	omnipresence	omnipresent	omniscience	omniscient	omnisciently	omnium	omnivore	omnivores	omnivorous	omnivorously	omnivorousness	omphali	omphalos	oms	on	onager	onagers	onanism	onanisms	onanist	onanistic	onanists	onboard	once	onces	oncogenic	oncograph	oncologic	oncological	oncologies	oncology	oncoming	oncomings	one	onefold	oneida	oneidas	oneness	onenesses	onerosities	onerosity	onerous	onerously	onerousness	onery	ones	oneself	onetime	ongoing	onion	onions	onionskin	onionskins	onlooker	onlookers	only	onomatopoeia	onomatopoeic	onomatopoeically	onomatopoetic	onomatopoetically	onomatopoieses	onomatopoiesis	onondaga	onondagas	onrush	onrushes	onrushing	onset	onsets	onshore	onside	onslaught	onslaughts	onstage	ontario	onto	ontogeneses	ontogenesis	ontogenetic	ontogenetically	ontogenic	ontogenically	ontogenies	ontogeny	ontological	ontologies	ontology	onus	onuses	onward	onwards	onyx	onyxes	oocyte	oodles	ooh	oohed	oohing	oohs	oolite	oolith	oology	oolong	oolongs	oomph	oomphs	oops	ooze	oozed	oozes	oozier	ooziest	oozily	ooziness	oozing	oozy	opacification	opacified	opacifies	opacify	opacifying	opacities	opacity	opal	opalesced	opalescence	opalescent	opalesces	opalescing	opaline	opals	opaque	opaqued	opaquely	opaqueness	opaquer	opaques	opaquest	opaquing	ope	opec	open	openable	opened	openendedness	opener	openers	openest	openhanded	openhandedly	openhandedness	openhearted	openheartedly	openheartedness	opening	openings	openly	openmouthed	openness	opens	openwork	openworks	opera	operabilities	operability	operable	operably	operand	operandi	operands	operant	operants	operas	operate	operated	operates	operatic	operatically	operatics	operating	operation	operation's	operational	operationally	operations	operative	operatively	operatives	operator	operators	operculated	operetta	operettas	opes	ophidian	ophidians	ophthalmic	ophthalmologic	ophthalmological	ophthalmologically	ophthalmologies	ophthalmologist	ophthalmologists	ophthalmology	ophthalmometer	ophthalmometry	ophthalmoscope	ophthalmoscopes	ophthalmoscopic	ophthalmoscopies	ophthalmoscopy	opiate	opiated	opiates	opiating	opine	opined	opiner	opiners	opines	opining	opinion	opinionated	opinionatedly	opinions	opium	opiumisms	opiums	opossum	opossums	opp	opponent	opponents	opportune	opportunely	opportunism	opportunist	opportunistic	opportunists	opportunities	opportunity	opposabilities	opposability	opposable	oppose	opposed	opposer	opposers	opposes	opposing	opposite	oppositely	oppositeness	opposites	opposition	oppositional	oppositionist	oppositionists	oppress	oppressed	oppresses	oppressing	oppression	oppressive	oppressively	oppressiveness	oppressor	oppressors	opprobriate	opprobriated	opprobriating	opprobrious	opprobriously	opprobrium	opprobriums	oppugn	oppugns	ops	opt	optative	optatives	opted	optic	optical	optically	optician	opticians	opticist	opticopupillary	optics	optima	optimal	optimally	optimeter	optimise	optimism	optimisms	optimist	optimistic	optimistical	optimistically	optimists	optimization	optimize	optimized	optimizes	optimizing	optimum	optimums	opting	option	optional	optionally	optionals	optionees	optioning	options	optometer	optometric	optometrical	optometries	optometrist	optometrists	optometry	opts	opulence	opulences	opulencies	opulency	opulent	opulently	opus	opuses	or	oracle	oracles	oracular	oracularly	oral	oralities	orality	orally	oralogy	orals	orang	orange	orangeade	orangeades	orangeries	orangery	oranges	orangey	orangier	orangiest	orangish	orangs	orangutan	orangutans	orangy	orate	orated	orates	orating	oration	orations	orator	oratorian	oratorical	oratorically	oratories	oratorio	oratorios	orators	oratory	oratress	oratresses	oratrices	oratrix	orb	orbed	orbicular	orbing	orbit	orbital	orbitally	orbitals	orbited	orbiter	orbiters	orbiting	orbits	orbs	orc	orca	orcas	orch	orchard	orchardist	orchardists	orchardman	orchards	orchectomy	orchestra	orchestral	orchestrally	orchestras	orchestrate	orchestrated	orchestrates	orchestrating	orchestration	orchestrations	orchestrator	orchestrators	orchid	orchids	orchis	orcs	ordain	ordained	ordainer	ordainers	ordaining	ordainment	ordains	ordeal	ordeals	order	ordered	orderer	orderers	ordering	orderings	orderlies	orderliness	orderly	orders	ordinal	ordinals	ordinance	ordinances	ordinands	ordinarier	ordinaries	ordinarily	ordinariness	ordinarius	ordinary	ordinate	ordinates	ordination	ordinations	ordnance	ordnances	ordo	ordonnance	ordos	ordure	ordures	ordurous	ore	oread	oregano	oreganos	oregon	oregonian	oregonians	ores	organ	organa	organdie	organdies	organdy	organelle	organelles	organic	organically	organics	organism	organismal	organismic	organisms	organist	organists	organization	organization's	organizational	organizationally	organizations	organize	organized	organizer	organizers	organizes	organizing	organophosphate	organs	organza	orgasm	orgasmic	orgasms	orgastic	orgeat	orgeats	orgiac	orgiastic	orgiastical	orgic	orgies	orgy	oriel	oriels	orient	oriental	orientals	orientate	orientated	orientates	orientating	orientation	orientations	oriented	orienting	orients	orifice	orifices	orificial	orig	origami	origamis	origin	original	originalities	originality	originally	originals	originate	originated	originates	originating	origination	originator	originators	origins	oriole	orioles	orion	orison	orisons	orleans	orlon	ormolu	ormolus	ornament	ornamental	ornamentation	ornamentations	ornamented	ornamenting	ornaments	ornate	ornately	ornateness	ornerier	orneriest	orneriness	ornery	ornithological	ornithologist	ornithologists	ornithology	orogenic	orogeny	orotund	orotundity	orphan	orphanage	orphanages	orphaned	orphanhood	orphaning	orphans	orpheus	orphic	orpiments	orpines	orreries	orrery	orris	orrises	orrisroot	ors	ort	orth	ortho	orthodontia	orthodontic	orthodontics	orthodontist	orthodontists	orthodox	orthodoxes	orthodoxies	orthodoxy	orthoepist	orthoepists	orthoepy	orthographic	orthographically	orthography	orthomolecular	orthopaedic	orthopaedics	orthopaedist	orthopedic	orthopedically	orthopedics	orthopedist	orthopedists	ortolan	ortolans	orts	orwell	orwellian	oryx	oryxes	os	osage	osages	osaka	oscar	oscars	oscillate	oscillated	oscillates	oscillating	oscillation	oscillations	oscillator	oscillators	oscillatory	oscillogram	oscillograph	oscillographic	oscillographies	oscillography	oscillometer	oscillometric	oscillometries	oscillometry	oscilloscope	oscilloscopes	oscilloscopic	oscilloscopically	oscula	osculant	oscular	osculate	osculated	osculates	osculating	osculation	osculations	oscule	oscules	osculum	osier	osiers	oslo	osmic	osmium	osmiums	osmose	osmosed	osmoses	osmosing	osmosis	osmotic	osmotically	osprey	ospreys	ossea	osseous	osseously	ossia	ossification	ossifications	ossificatory	ossified	ossifier	ossifiers	ossifies	ossify	ossifying	ossuaries	ossuary	osteal	osteitic	osteitis	ostensibilities	ostensibility	ostensible	ostensibly	ostensive	ostentation	ostentatious	ostentatiously	osteoarthritic	osteoarthritis	osteological	osteologically	osteologies	osteologist	osteology	osteopath	osteopathic	osteopathically	osteopathies	osteopathist	osteopaths	osteopathy	osteoporosis	osteoscleroses	osteosclerosis	osteosclerotic	osteotome	osteotomy	ostia	ostinato	ostinatos	ostium	ostler	ostlers	ostmark	ostmarks	ostomy	ostracism	ostracize	ostracized	ostracizes	ostracizing	ostracods	ostrich	ostriches	oswego	other	others	otherwise	otherworldliness	otherworldly	otic	otiose	otiosely	otiosity	otolaryngologies	otolaryngologist	otolaryngologists	otolaryngology	otolith	otolithic	otoliths	otologic	otological	otologically	otologies	otologist	otology	otoscope	otoscopes	otoscopic	otoscopies	otoscopy	ottawa	ottawas	otter	otters	otto	ottoman	ottomans	oubliette	oubliettes	ouch	ouches	ought	oughted	oughts	oui	ouija	ounce	ounces	our	ourangs	ours	ourself	ourselves	ousel	ousels	oust	ousted	ouster	ousters	ousting	ousts	out	outage	outages	outargue	outargued	outargues	outarguing	outback	outbacks	outbalance	outbalanced	outbalances	outbalancing	outbargain	outbargained	outbargaining	outbargains	outbid	outbidden	outbidding	outbids	outbluff	outbluffed	outbluffing	outbluffs	outboard	outboards	outboast	outboasted	outboasting	outboasts	outbound	outbox	outboxed	outboxes	outboxing	outbreak	outbreaks	outbuilding	outbuildings	outburst	outbursts	outcast	outcaste	outcastes	outcasts	outchiding	outclass	outclassed	outclasses	outclassing	outcome	outcomes	outcried	outcries	outcrop	outcropped	outcropping	outcroppings	outcrops	outcry	outdate	outdated	outdates	outdating	outdid	outdistance	outdistanced	outdistances	outdistancing	outdo	outdodge	outdodged	outdodges	outdodging	outdoer	outdoers	outdoes	outdoing	outdone	outdoor	outdoors	outdraw	outdrew	outed	outer	outermost	outers	outface	outfaced	outfaces	outfacing	outfield	outfielded	outfielder	outfielders	outfielding	outfields	outfight	outfighting	outfights	outfit	outfits	outfitted	outfitter	outfitters	outfitting	outfittings	outflank	outflanked	outflanker	outflanking	outflanks	outflew	outflow	outflowed	outflowing	outflows	outfought	outfox	outfoxed	outfoxes	outfoxing	outgas	outgassed	outgasses	outgassing	outgo	outgoes	outgoing	outgoings	outgrew	outgrow	outgrowing	outgrown	outgrows	outgrowth	outgrowths	outguess	outguessed	outguesses	outguessing	outgun	outgunned	outgunning	outguns	outgushes	outhit	outhits	outhitting	outhouse	outhouses	outing	outings	outjuts	outjutting	outland	outlandish	outlandishly	outlandishness	outlands	outlast	outlasted	outlasting	outlasts	outlaw	outlawed	outlawing	outlawries	outlawry	outlaws	outlay	outlaying	outlays	outleap	outleaped	outleaping	outleaps	outleapt	outlet	outlets	outlie	outlier	outliers	outlies	outline	outlined	outlines	outlining	outlive	outlived	outliver	outlivers	outlives	outliving	outlook	outlooks	outlying	outmaneuver	outmaneuvered	outmaneuvering	outmaneuvers	outmarch	outmarched	outmarches	outmarching	outmode	outmoded	outmodes	outmoved	outnumber	outnumbered	outnumbering	outnumbers	outpace	outpaced	outpaces	outpacing	outpatient	outpatients	outpayment	outperform	outperformed	outperforming	outperforms	outplay	outplayed	outplaying	outplays	outpost	outposts	outpour	outpoured	outpouring	outpourings	outproduce	outproduced	outproduces	outproducing	output	outputs	outputted	outputting	outrace	outraced	outraces	outracing	outrage	outraged	outrageous	outrageously	outrageousness	outrages	outraging	outran	outrange	outranged	outranges	outranging	outrank	outranked	outranking	outranks	outre	outreach	outreached	outreaches	outreaching	outreason	outreasoned	outreasoning	outreasons	outrider	outriders	outrides	outriding	outrigger	outriggers	outright	outrightness	outrooted	outrooting	outrun	outrunning	outruns	outrush	outs	outscore	outscored	outscores	outscoring	outsell	outselling	outsells	outset	outsets	outshine	outshined	outshines	outshining	outshone	outshout	outshouted	outshouting	outshouts	outside	outsider	outsiders	outsides	outsize	outsized	outsizes	outskirt	outskirts	outsmart	outsmarted	outsmarting	outsmarts	outsold	outspell	outspelled	outspelling	outspells	outspoke	outspoken	outspokenly	outspokenness	outspread	outspreading	outspreads	outstand	outstanding	outstandingly	outstandingness	outstands	outstare	outstared	outstares	outstaring	outstation	outstations	outstay	outstayed	outstaying	outstays	outstretch	outstretched	outstretches	outstretching	outstrip	outstripped	outstripping	outstrips	outstroke	outswam	outswim	outswimming	outswims	outswum	outtakes	outthink	outtrumped	outvote	outvoted	outvotes	outvoting	outwait	outwaited	outwaits	outwalk	outwalked	outwalking	outwalks	outward	outwardly	outwards	outwear	outwearing	outwears	outweigh	outweighed	outweighing	outweighs	outwit	outwits	outwitted	outwitting	outwore	outwork	outworked	outworker	outworkers	outworking	outworks	outworn	outyell	outyelled	outyelling	outyells	ouzel	ouzels	ouzo	ouzos	ova	oval	ovality	ovally	ovalness	ovals	ovarial	ovarian	ovaries	ovary	ovate	ovately	ovation	ovations	oven	ovenbird	ovens	ovenware	ovenwares	over	overabound	overabounded	overabounding	overabounds	overabundance	overabundant	overachieve	overachieved	overachiever	overachieving	overact	overacted	overacting	overactive	overacts	overadorned	overage	overages	overaggressive	overall	overalls	overambitious	overambitiously	overanalyze	overanalyzed	overanalyzes	overanalyzing	overanxious	overapprehensive	overapprehensively	overapprehensiveness	overarched	overarches	overargumentative	overarm	overassertive	overassertively	overassertiveness	overassessment	overassured	overate	overattached	overattentive	overattentively	overattentiveness	overawe	overawed	overawes	overawing	overbake	overbaked	overbakes	overbaking	overbalance	overbalanced	overbalances	overbalancing	overbear	overbearing	overbearingly	overbears	overbid	overbidden	overbidding	overbids	overbite	overbites	overblown	overblows	overboard	overbold	overbooked	overbooks	overbore	overborne	overbought	overburden	overburdened	overburdening	overburdens	overburdensome	overbuy	overbuying	overbuys	overcame	overcapacity	overcapitalize	overcapitalized	overcapitalizes	overcapitalizing	overcareful	overcast	overcasts	overcasual	overcautious	overcautiously	overcautiousness	overcharge	overcharged	overcharges	overcharging	overcloud	overclouded	overclouding	overclouds	overcoat	overcoats	overcome	overcomes	overcoming	overcommon	overcompensate	overcompensated	overcompensates	overcompensating	overcompensation	overcompensations	overcompensators	overcompetitive	overcomplacency	overcomplacent	overconcern	overconfidence	overconfident	overconfidently	overconscientious	overconservative	overconsiderate	overcook	overcooked	overcooking	overcooks	overcool	overcooled	overcooling	overcools	overcorrection	overcritical	overcritically	overcrowd	overcrowded	overcrowding	overcrowds	overcurious	overdecorate	overdecorated	overdecorates	overdecorating	overdefensive	overdelicate	overdependence	overdependent	overdesirous	overdetailed	overdevelop	overdeveloped	overdeveloping	overdevelopment	overdevelops	overdid	overdiligent	overdiligently	overdiversification	overdiversified	overdiversifies	overdiversify	overdiversifying	overdiversity	overdo	overdoes	overdoing	overdone	overdosage	overdose	overdosed	overdoses	overdosing	overdraft	overdrafts	overdramatize	overdramatized	overdramatizes	overdramatizing	overdrank	overdraw	overdrawing	overdrawn	overdraws	overdress	overdressed	overdresses	overdressing	overdrew	overdrink	overdrinking	overdrinks	overdrive	overdrives	overdrunk	overdue	overeager	overearnest	overeasy	overeat	overeaten	overeating	overeats	overed	overeducate	overeducated	overeducates	overeducating	overelaborate	overelaborated	overelaborates	overelaborating	overembellish	overembellished	overembellishes	overembellishing	overemotional	overemphasis	overemphasize	overemphasized	overemphasizes	overemphasizing	overemphatic	overenthusiastic	overenthusiastically	overestimate	overestimated	overestimates	overestimating	overestimation	overestimations	overexcitable	overexcitably	overexcite	overexcited	overexcites	overexciting	overexercise	overexercised	overexercises	overexercising	overexert	overexerted	overexerting	overexerts	overexpand	overexpanded	overexpanding	overexpands	overexpansion	overexpectant	overexplicit	overexpose	overexposed	overexposes	overexposing	overexposure	overextend	overextended	overextending	overextends	overextension	overfamiliar	overfamiliarity	overfanciful	overfastidious	overfatigue	overfatigued	overfatigues	overfatiguing	overfed	overfeed	overfeeding	overfeeds	overfill	overfilled	overfilling	overfills	overflew	overflies	overflight	overflights	overflow	overflowed	overflowing	overflown	overflows	overfly	overflying	overfond	overfull	overfurnish	overfurnished	overfurnishes	overfurnishing	overgarment	overgeneralization	overgeneralize	overgeneralized	overgeneralizes	overgeneralizing	overgenerous	overglaze	overglazes	overgraze	overgrazed	overgrazes	overgrazing	overgrew	overgrow	overgrowing	overgrown	overgrows	overgrowth	overhand	overhanded	overhands	overhang	overhanging	overhangs	overhastily	overhastiness	overhasty	overhaul	overhauled	overhauling	overhauls	overhead	overheads	overheaped	overheaps	overhear	overheard	overhearing	overhears	overheat	overheated	overheating	overheats	overhung	overhurried	overidealistic	overimaginative	overimpress	overimpressed	overimpresses	overimpressing	overincline	overinclined	overinclines	overinclining	overindulge	overindulged	overindulgence	overindulgent	overindulges	overindulging	overindustrialize	overindustrialized	overindustrializes	overindustrializing	overinflate	overinflated	overinflates	overinflating	overinfluential	overinsistence	overinsistent	overinsistently	overinsure	overinsured	overinsures	overinsuring	overintellectual	overintellectually	overintense	overintensely	overinterest	overinvest	overinvested	overinvesting	overinvests	overissue	overissues	overjoy	overjoyed	overjoying	overjoys	overkill	overkilled	overkills	overladed	overladen	overlades	overlaid	overlain	overland	overlands	overlap	overlapped	overlapping	overlaps	overlarge	overlavish	overlay	overlaying	overlays	overleaf	overleap	overleaped	overleaping	overleaps	overleapt	overlie	overlies	overload	overloaded	overloading	overloads	overlong	overlook	overlooked	overlooking	overlooks	overlord	overlorded	overlords	overlordship	overly	overlying	overmagnification	overmagnified	overmagnifies	overmagnify	overmagnifying	overman	overmans	overmaster	overmastered	overmastering	overmasters	overmatch	overmatched	overmatches	overmatching	overmen	overmodest	overmodestly	overmodified	overmodifies	overmodify	overmodifying	overmuch	overmuches	overnice	overnight	overnighters	overoptimism	overpaid	overparticular	overpass	overpassed	overpasses	overpast	overpay	overpaying	overpayment	overpays	overpessimistic	overplay	overplayed	overplaying	overplays	overpopulate	overpopulated	overpopulates	overpopulating	overpopulation	overpower	overpowered	overpowerful	overpowering	overpoweringly	overpowers	overpraise	overpraised	overpraises	overpraising	overprecise	overprecisely	overprice	overpriced	overprices	overpricing	overprint	overprinted	overprinting	overprints	overproduce	overproduced	overproduces	overproducing	overproduction	overprominent	overprompt	overpromptly	overproportion	overprotect	overprotected	overprotecting	overprotection	overprotects	overproud	overqualified	overran	overrank	overrate	overrated	overrates	overrating	overreach	overreached	overreacher	overreachers	overreaches	overreaching	overreact	overreacted	overreacting	overreaction	overreactions	overreacts	overrefine	overrefined	overrefinement	overrefines	overrefining	overridden	override	overrides	overriding	overrighteous	overrighteously	overrighteousness	overrigid	overripe	overroast	overroasted	overroasting outage	outages	outargue	outargued	outargues	outarguing	outback	outbacks	outbalance	outbalanced	outbalances	outbalancing	outbargain	outbargained	outbargaining	outbargains	outbid	outbidden	outbidding	outbids	outbluff	outbluffed	outbluffing	outbluffs	outboard	outboards	outboast	outboasted	outboasting	outboasts	outbound	outbox	outboxed	outboxes	outboxing	outbreak	outbreaks	outbuilding	outbuildings	outburst	outbursts	outcast	outcaste	outcastes	outcasts	outchiding	outclass	outclassed	outclasses	outclassing	outcome	outcomes	outcried	outcries	outcrop	outcropped	outcropping	outcroppings	outcrops	outcry	outdate	outdated	outdates	outdating	outdid	outdistance	outdistanced	outdistances	outdistancing	outdo	outdodge	outdodged	outdodges	outdodging	outdoer	outdoers	outdoes	outdoing	outdone	outdoor	outdoors	outdraw	outdrew	outed	outer	outermost	outers	outface	outfaced	outfaces	outfacing	outfield	outfielded	outfielder	outfielders	outfielding	outfields	outfight	outfighting	outfights	outfit	outfits	outfitted	outfitter	outfitters	outfitting	outfittings	outflank	outflanked	outflanker	outflanking	outflanks	outflew	outflow	outflowed	outflowing	outflows	outfought	outfox	outfoxed	outfoxes	outfoxing	outgas	outgassed	outgasses	outgassing	outgo	outgoes	outgoing	outgoings	outgrew	outgrow	outgrowing	outgrown	outgrows	outgrowth	outgrowths	outguess	outguessed	outguesses	outguessing	outgun	outgunned	outgunning	outguns	outgushes	outhit	outhits	outhitting	outhouse	outhouses	outing	outings	outjuts	outjutting	outland	outlandish	outlandishly	outlandishness	outlands	outlast	outlasted	outlasting	outlasts	outlaw	outlawed	outlawing	outlawries	outlawry	outlaws	outlay	outlaying	outlays	outleap	outleaped	outleaping	outleaps	outleapt	outlet	outlets	outlie	outlier	outliers	outlies	outline	outlined	outlines	outlining	outlive	outlived	outliver	outlivers	outlives	outliving	outlook	outlooks	outlying	outmaneuver	outmaneuvered	outmaneuvering	outmaneuvers	outmarch	outmarched	outmarches	outmarching	outmode	outmoded	outmodes	outmoved	outnumber	outnumbered	outnumbering	outnumbers	outpace	outpaced	outpaces	outpacing	outpatient	outpatients	outpayment	outperform	outperformed	outperforming	outperforms	outplay	outplayed	outplaying	outplays	outpost	outposts	outpour	outpoured	outpouring	outpourings	outproduce	outproduced	outproduces	outproducing	output	outputs	outputted	outputting	outrace	outraced	outraces	outracing	outrage	outraged	outrageous	outrageously	outrageousness	outrages	outraging	outran	outrange	outranged	outranges	outranging	outrank	outranked	outranking	outranks	outre	outreach	outreached	outreaches	outreaching	outreason	outreasoned	outreasoning	outreasons	outrider	outriders	outrides	outriding	outrigger	outriggers	outright	outrightness	outrooted	outrooting	outrun	outrunning	outruns	outrush	outs	outscore	outscored	outscores	outscoring	outsell	outselling	outsells	outset	outsets	outshine	outshined	outshines	outshining	outshone	outshout	outshouted	outshouting	outshouts	outside	outsider	outsiders	outsides	outsize	outsized	outsizes	outskirt	outskirts	outsmart	outsmarted	outsmarting	outsmarts	outsold	outspell	outspelled	outspelling	outspells	outspoke	outspoken	outspokenly	outspokenness	outspread	outspreading	outspreads	outstand	outstanding	outstandingly	outstandingness	outstands	outstare	outstared	outstares	outstaring	outstation	outstations	outstay	outstayed	outstaying	outstays	outstretch	outstretched	outstretches	outstretching	outstrip	outstripped	outstripping	outstrips	outstroke	outswam	outswim	outswimming	outswims	outswum	outtakes	outthink	outtrumped	outvote	outvoted	outvotes	outvoting	outwait	outwaited	outwaits	outwalk	outwalked	outwalking	outwalks	outward	outwardly	outwards	outwear	outwearing	outwears	outweigh	outweighed	outweighing	outweighs	outwit	outwits	outwitted	outwitting	outwore	outwork	outworked	outworker	outworkers	outworking	outworks	outworn	outyell	outyelled	outyelling	outyells	ouzel	ouzels	ouzo	ouzos	ova	oval	ovality	ovally	ovalness	ovals	ovarial	ovarian	ovaries	ovary	ovate	ovately	ovation	ovations	oven	ovenbird	ovens	ovenware	ovenwares	over	overabound	overabounded	overabounding	overabounds	overabundance	overabundant	overachieve	overachieved	overachiever	overachieving	overact	overacted	overacting	overactive	overacts	overadorned	overage	overages	overaggressive	overall	overalls	overambitious	overambitiously	overanalyze	overanalyzed	overanalyzes	overanalyzing	overanxious	overapprehensive	overapprehensively	overapprehensiveness	overarched	overarches	overargumentative	overarm	overassertive	overassertively	overassertiveness	overassessment	overassured	overate	overattached	overattentive	overattentively	overattentiveness	overawe	overawed	overawes	overawing	overbake	overbaked	overbakes	overbaking	overbalance	overbalanced	overbalances	overbalancing	overbear	overbearing	overbearingly	overbears	overbid	overbidden	overbidding	overbids	overbite	overbites	overblown	overblows	overboard	overbold	overbooked	overbooks	overbore	overborne	overbought	overburden	overburdened	overburdening	overburdens	overburdensome	overbuy	overbuying	overbuys	overcame	overcapacity	overcapitalize	overcapitalized	overcapitalizes	overcapitalizing	overcareful	overcast	overcasts	overcasual	overcautious	overcautiously	overcautiousness	overcharge	overcharged	overcharges	overcharging	overcloud	overclouded	overclouding	overclouds	overcoat	overcoats	overcome	overcomes	overcoming	overcommon	overcompensate	overcompensated	overcompensates	overcompensating	overcompensation	overcompensations	overcompensators	overcompetitive	overcomplacency	overcomplacent	overconcern	overconfidence	overconfident	overconfidently	overconscientious	overconservative	overconsiderate	overcook	overcooked	overcooking	overcooks	overcool	overcooled	overcooling	overcools	overcorrection	overcritical	overcritically	overcrowd	overcrowded	overcrowding	overcrowds	overcurious	overdecorate	overdecorated	overdecorates	overdecorating	overdefensive	overdelicate	overdependence	overdependent	overdesirous	overdetailed	overdevelop	overdeveloped	overdeveloping	overdevelopment	overdevelops	overdid	overdiligent	overdiligently	overdiversification	overdiversified	overdiversifies	overdiversify	overdiversifying	overdiversity	overdo	overdoes	overdoing	overdone	overdosage	overdose	overdosed	overdoses	overdosing	overdraft	overdrafts	overdramatize	overdramatized	overdramatizes	overdramatizing	overdrank	overdraw	overdrawing	overdrawn	overdraws	overdress	overdressed	overdresses	overdressing	overdrew	overdrink	overdrinking	overdrinks	overdrive	overdrives	overdrunk	overdue	overeager	overearnest	overeasy	overeat	overeaten	overeating	overeats	overed	overeducate	overeducated	overeducates	overeducating	overelaborate	overelaborated	overelaborates	overelaborating	overembellish	overembellished	overembellishes	overembellishing	overemotional	overemphasis	overemphasize	overemphasized	overemphasizes	overemphasizing	overemphatic	overenthusiastic	overenthusiastically	overestimate	overestimated	overestimates	overestimating	overestimation	overestimations	overexcitable	overexcitably	overexcite	overexcited	overexcites	overexciting	overexercise	overexercised	overexercises	overexercising	overexert	overexerted	overexerting	overexerts	overexpand	overexpanded	overexpanding	overexpands	overexpansion	overexpectant	overexplicit	overexpose	overexposed	overexposes	overexposing	overexposure	overextend	overextended	overextending	overextends	overextension	overfamiliar	overfamiliarity	overfanciful	overfastidious	overfatigue	overfatigued	overfatigues	overfatiguing	overfed	overfeed	overfeeding	overfeeds	overfill	overfilled	overfilling	overfills	overflew	overflies	overflight	overflights	overflow	overflowed	overflowing	overflown	overflows	overfly	overflying	overfond	overfull	overfurnish	overfurnished	overfurnishes	overfurnishing	overgarment	overgeneralization	overgeneralize	overgeneralized	overgeneralizes	overgeneralizing	overgenerous	overglaze	overglazes	overgraze	overgrazed	overgrazes	overgrazing	overgrew	overgrow	overgrowing	overgrown	overgrows	overgrowth	overhand	overhanded	overhands	overhang	overhanging	overhangs	overhastily	overhastiness	overhasty	overhaul	overhauled	overhauling	overhauls	overhead	overheads	overheaped	overheaps	overhear	overheard	overhearing	overhears	overheat	overheated	overheating	overheats	overhung	overhurried	overidealistic	overimaginative	overimpress	overimpressed	overimpresses	overimpressing	overincline	overinclined	overinclines	overinclining	overindulge	overindulged	overindulgence	overindulgent	overindulges	overindulging	overindustrialize	overindustrialized	overindustrializes	overindustrializing	overinflate	overinflated	overinflates	overinflating	overinfluential	overinsistence	overinsistent	overinsistently	overinsure	overinsured	overinsures	overinsuring	overintellectual	overintellectually	overintense	overintensely	overinterest	overinvest	overinvested	overinvesting	overinvests	overissue	overissues	overjoy	overjoyed	overjoying	overjoys	overkill	overkilled	overkills	overladed	overladen	overlades	overlaid	overlain	overland	overlands	overlap	overlapped	overlapping	overlaps	overlarge	overlavish	overlay	overlaying	overlays	overleaf	overleap	overleaped	overleaping	overleaps	overleapt	overlie	overlies	overload	overloaded	overloading	overloads	overlong	overlook	overlooked	overlooking	overlooks	overlord	overlorded	overlords	overlordship	overly	overlying	overmagnification	overmagnified	overmagnifies	overmagnify	overmagnifying	overman	overmans	overmaster	overmastered	overmastering	overmasters	overmatch	overmatched	overmatches	overmatching	overmen	overmodest	overmodestly	overmodified	overmodifies	overmodify	overmodifying	overmuch	overmuches	overnice	overnight	overnighters	overoptimism	overpaid	overparticular	overpass	overpassed	overpasses	overpast	overpay	overpaying	overpayment	overpays	overpessimistic	overplay	overplayed	overplaying	overplays	overpopulate	overpopulated	overpopulates	overpopulating	overpopulation	overpower	overpowered	overpowerful	overpowering	overpoweringly	overpowers	overpraise	overpraised	overpraises	overpraising	overprecise	overprecisely	overprice	overpriced	overprices	overpricing	overprint	overprinted	overprinting	overprints	overproduce	overproduced	overproduces	overproducing	overproduction	overprominent	overprompt	overpromptly	overproportion	overprotect	overprotected	overprotecting	overprotection	overprotects	overproud	overqualified	overran	overrank	overrate	overrated	overrates	overrating	overreach	overreached	overreacher	overreachers	overreaches	overreaching	overreact	overreacted	overreacting	overreaction	overreactions	overreacts	overrefine	overrefined	overrefinement	overrefines	overrefining	overridden	override	overrides	overriding	overrighteous	overrighteously	overrighteousness	overrigid	overripe	overroast	overroasted	overroasting	overroasts	overrode	overrule	overruled	overrules	overruling	overrun	overrunning	overruns	overs	oversalt	oversalted	oversalting	oversalts	oversaw	overscrupulous	overscrupulously	overscrupulousness	oversea	overseas	oversee	overseeing	overseen	overseer	overseers	overseership	oversees	oversell	overselling	oversells	oversensitive	oversensitively	oversensitiveness	oversensitivity	oversevere	oversexed	overshadow	overshadowed	overshadowing	overshadows	oversharp	overshoe	overshoes	overshoot	overshooting	overshoots	overshot	overshots	oversides	oversight	oversights	oversimple	oversimplification	oversimplifications	oversimplified	oversimplifies	oversimplify	oversimplifying	oversize	oversized	oversizes	overskeptical	overskirt	oversleep	oversleeping	oversleeps	overslept	overslips	overslipt	oversold	oversolicitous	oversolicitously	oversolicitousness	oversophisticated	oversoul	oversouls	oversparing	overspecialization	overspecialize	overspecialized	overspecializes	overspecializing	overspend	overspending	overspends	overspent	overspins	overspread	overspreading	overspreads	overstate	overstated	overstatement	overstatements	overstates	overstating	overstay	overstayed	overstaying	overstays	overstep	overstepped	overstepping	oversteps	overstimulate	overstimulated	overstimulates	overstimulating	overstimulation	overstock	overstocked	overstocking	overstocks	overstrain	overstretch	overstretched	overstretches	overstretching	overstrict	overstrike	overstuff	overstuffed	oversubscribe	oversubscribed	oversubscribes	oversubscribing	oversubscription	oversubtle	oversubtleties	oversubtlety	oversupplied	oversupplies	oversupply	oversupplying	oversuspicious	oversystematic	overt	overtake	overtaken	overtakes	overtaking	overtax	overtaxed	overtaxes	overtaxing	overtechnical	overthrew	overthrow	overthrower	overthrowers	overthrowing	overthrown	overthrows	overtime	overtire	overtired	overtires	overtiring	overtly	overtone	overtones	overtook	overtop	overtopped	overtopping	overtops	overtrain	overtrained	overtraining	overtrains	overture	overtured	overtures	overturing	overturn	overturned	overturning	overturns	overuse	overused	overuses	overusing	overvalue	overvalued	overvalues	overvaluing	overview	overviews	overviolent	overwealthy	overween	overweening	overweeningly	overweens	overweigh	overweighed	overweighing	overweighs	overweight	overwhelm	overwhelmed	overwhelming	overwhelmingly	overwhelms	overwilling	overwillingly	overwise	overwork	overworked	overworking	overworks	overwound	overwrite	overwrites	overwriting	overwritten	overwrote	overwrought	overzealous	overzealously	overzealousness	ovid	oviduct	oviducts	oviform	ovine	ovines	oviparity	oviparous	oviparously	oviposits	ovoid	ovoidal	ovoids	ovolo	ovular	ovulary	ovulate	ovulated	ovulates	ovulating	ovulation	ovulations	ovulatory	ovule	ovules	ovum	ow	owe	owed	owes	owing	owl	owlet	owlets	owlish	owlishly	owllike	owls	own	ownable	owned	owner	ownerless	owners	ownership	ownerships	owning	owns	ox	oxalic	oxalis	oxalises	oxblood	oxbloods	oxbow	oxbows	oxcart	oxcarts	oxen	oxes	oxeye	oxeyes	oxford	oxfords	oxgall	oxheart	oxhearts	oxidant	oxidants	oxidate	oxidating	oxidation	oxidations	oxidative	oxidatively	oxide	oxides	oxidic	oxidise	oxidizable	oxidization	oxidizations	oxidize	oxidized	oxidizer	oxidizers	oxidizes	oxidizing	oxlip	oxlips	oxtail	oxtails	oxter	oxters	oxtongue	oxtongues	oxy	oxyacetylene	oxygen	oxygenate	oxygenated	oxygenates	oxygenating	oxygenation	oxygenic	oxygenize	oxygenizing	oxygenous	oxygens	oxyhydrogen	oxymoron	oyer	oyers	oyes	oyez	oyster	oystered	oysterer	oysterers	oysteries	oystering	oysterman	oystermen	oysters	oysterwoman	oysterwomen	oz	ozonator	ozone	ozones	ozonic	ozonise	ozonization	ozonize	ozonized	ozonizer	ozonizers	ozonizes	ozonizing	ozonous	pa	pablum	pabulum	pabulums	pac	pace	paced	pacemaker	pacemakers	pacemaking	pacer	pacers	paces	pacesetter	pacesetters	pacesetting	pachisi	pachyderm	pachydermatous	pachyderms	pachysandra	pachysandras	pacifiable	pacific	pacifica	pacifically	pacification	pacified	pacifier	pacifiers	pacifies	pacifism	pacifisms	pacifist	pacifists	pacify	pacifying	pacing	pack	packable	package	packaged	packager	packagers	packages	packaging	packed	packer	packers	packet	packeted	packeting	packets	packhorse	packhorses	packing	packinghouse	packings	packman	packmen	packs	packsack	packsacks	packsaddle	packsaddles	packthread	packthreads	pacs	pact	pacta	pacts	pad	padded	paddies	padding	paddings	paddle	paddled	paddler	paddlers	paddles	paddling	paddlings	paddock	paddocked	paddocking	paddocks	paddy	padishah	padishahs	padlock	padlocked	padlocking	padlocks	padre	padres	padri	padrone	pads	padshah	paean	paeanisms	paeans	paella	paellas	paeons	pagan	pagandom	pagandoms	paganish	paganism	paganisms	paganist	paganists	paganize	paganized	paganizer	paganizes	paganizing	pagans	page	pageant	pageantry	pageants	pageboy	pageboys	paged	pagers	pages	pagesize	paginal	paginate	paginated	paginates	paginating	pagination	paging	pagoda	pagodas	paid	pail	pailful	pailfuls	pails	pailsful	pain	paine	pained	painful	painfuller	painfully	painfulness	paining	painkiller	painkillers	painkilling	painless	painlessly	painlessness	pains	painstaking	painstakingly	paint	paintbrush	paintbrushes	painted	painter	painters	paintier	paintiest	painting	paintings	paints	painty	pair	paired	pairing	pairings	pairs	paisan	paisano	paisanos	paisans	paisley	paisleys	pajama	pajamaed	pajamas	pakistan	pakistani	pakistanis	pal	palace	palaced	palaces	paladin	paladins	palanquin	palanquins	palatability	palatable	palatably	palatal	palate	palates	palatial	palatinate	palatinates	palatine	palatines	palaver	palavered	palavering	palavers	palazzi	palazzo	pale	paled	paleface	palefaces	palely	paleness	paleocene	paleographer	paleographers	paleographic	paleographical	paleography	paleontologist	paleontologists	paleontology	paleozoic	paler	pales	palest	palestine	palestinian	palestinians	palets	palette	palettes	palfrey	palfreys	palier	palimpsest	palimpsests	palindrome	palindromes	palindromic	palindromically	paling	palings	palinode	palinodes	palisade	palisaded	palisades	palisading	palish	pall	palladia	palladium	palladiums	pallbearer	pallbearers	palled	pallet	pallets	pallette	pallettes	palliate	palliated	palliates	palliating	palliation	palliations	palliative	palliatively	pallid	pallidly	pallier	palling	pallor	pallors	palls	pally	palm	palmate	palmature	palmed	palmer	palmers	palmettes	palmetto	palmettoes	palmettos	palmier	palmiest	palming	palmist	palmistry	palmists	palmitate	palms	palmy	palmyra	palmyras	palomino	palominos	palooka	palookas	palpability	palpable	palpably	palpal	palpate	palpated	palpates	palpating	palpation	palpations	palpator	palpators	palpitate	palpitated	palpitates	palpitating	palpitation	palpitations	palps	palpus	pals	palsied	palsies	palsy	palsying	palter	paltered	paltering	palters	paltrier	paltriest	paltrily	paltriness	paltry	pampa	pampas	pampean	pamper	pampered	pamperer	pamperers	pampering	pampers	pamphlet	pamphleteer	pamphleteers	pamphlets	pan	panacea	panacean	panaceas	panache	panaches	panama	panamanian	panamanians	panamas	panatella	panatellas	pancake	pancaked	pancakes	pancaking	panchromatic	pancreas	pancreases	pancreatic	panda	pandas	pandemic	pandemics	pandemonium	pander	pandered	panderer	panderers	pandering	panders	pandit	pandits	pandora	pandoras	pandowdies	pandowdy	pane	paned	panegyric	panegyrical	panegyrics	panegyrist	panegyrists	panegyrize	panegyrized	panegyrizes	panegyrizing	panel	paneled	paneling	panelings	panelist	panelists	panelled	panelling	panels	panes	panful	panfuls	pang	panga	panged	panging	pangolin	pangolins	pangs	panhandle	panhandled	panhandler	panhandlers	panhandles	panhandling	panic	panicked	panickier	panickiest	panicking	panicky	panicle	panicled	panicles	panics	panier	panjandrum	panjandrums	panned	pannier	panniers	pannikin	pannikins	panning	panocha	panoplies	panoply	panorama	panoramas	panoramic	panoramically	panpipe	panpipes	pans	pansies	pansophies	pansy	pant	pantaloons	panted	pantheism	pantheist	pantheistic	pantheistical	pantheists	pantheon	pantheons	panther	panthers	pantie	panties	panting	pantingly	pantomime	pantomimed	pantomimes	pantomimic	pantomiming	pantomimist	pantomimists	pantries	pantry	pants	pantsuit	pantsuits	panty	pantywaist	pantywaists	panzer	panzers	pap	papa	papacies	papacy	papain	papains	papal	papally	papas	papaw	papaws	papaya	papayan	papayas	paper	paperback	paperbacks	paperboard	paperboards	paperboy	paperboys	papered	paperer	paperers	paperhanger	paperhangers	paperhanging	papering	papers	paperweight	paperweights	paperwork	papery	papier	papilla	papillae	papillary	papillate	papillons	papist	papistries	papistry	papists	papoose	papooses	pappies	pappooses	pappy	paprika	paprikas	paps	papua	papuan	papuans	papular	papule	papules	papyral	papyri	papyrus	papyruses	par	para	parable	parables	parabola	parabolas	parabolic	parachute	parachuted	parachutes	parachuting	parachutist	parachutists	parade	paraded	parader	paraders	parades	paradigm	paradigms	parading	paradisal	paradise	paradises	paradisiacal	paradisiacally	paradox	paradoxes	paradoxical	paradoxically	paraffin	paraffine	paraffined	paraffinic	paraffins	parafoil	paragon	paragoning	paragons	paragraph	paragraphed	paragraphing	paragraphs	paraguay	paraguayan	paraguayans	parakeet	parakeets	paralegal	parallax	parallaxes	parallel	paralleled	paralleling	parallelism	parallelled	parallelling	parallelogram	parallelograms	parallels	paralyse	paralyses	paralysis	paralytic	paralytica	paralytical	paralyzant	paralyzation	paralyze	paralyzed	paralyzer	paralyzers	paralyzes	paralyzing	paralyzingly	paramecia	paramecium	parameciums	paramedic	paramedical	paramedics	parameter	parameterization	parameters	parametric	paramilitary	paramount	paramountly	paramour	paramours	paranoia	paranoiac	paranoiacs	paranoias	paranoid	paranoids	paranormal	paranormality	paranormally	parapet	parapets	paraphernalia	paraphrase	paraphrased	paraphraser	paraphrasers	paraphrases	paraphrasing	paraplegia	paraplegic	paraplegics	paraprofessional	paraprofessionals	parapsychologies	parapsychologist	parapsychologists	parapsychology	paraquat	paraquats	paras	parasite	parasites	parasitic	parasitical	parasitically	parasiticidal	parasiticide	parasiticidic	parasitism	parasitization	parasitize	parasitized	parasitizes	parasitizing	parasitologic	parasitological	parasitologies	parasitologist	parasol	parasols	parasympathetic	parathion	parathyroid	parathyroidal	parathyroids	paratroop	paratrooper	paratroopers	paratroops	paratyphoid	paratypic	parboil	parboiled	parboiling	parboils	parcel	parceled	parceling	parcelled	parcelling	parcels	parch	parched	parches	parching	parchment	parchments	pard	pardner	pardners	pardon	pardonable	pardonably	pardoned	pardoner	pardoners	pardoning	pardons	pare	pared	paregoric	parent	parentage	parental	parented	parentheses	parenthesis	parenthesize	parenthetic	parenthetical	parenthetically	parenthood	parenticide	parenting	parentis	parents	parer	parers	pares	paresis	paretic	paretics	pareve	parfait	parfaits	pargetting	pariah	pariahs	parietal	parietals	parimutuel	parimutuels	paring	parings	paris	parises	parish	parishes	parishioner	parishioners	parisian	parisians	parities	parity	park	parka	parkas	parked	parker	parkers	parking	parkings	parkinson	parkinsonian	parkinsonism	parkland	parklands	parks	parkway	parkways	parlance	parlances	parlay	parlayed	parlayer	parlayers	parlaying	parlays	parley	parleyed	parleyer	parleyers	parleying	parleys	parliament	parliamentarian	parliamentarians	parliamentary	parliaments	parlor	parlors	parlour	parlours	parlous	parlously	parmesan	parmigiana	parochial	parochialism	parochially	parodic	parodied	parodies	parodist	parodists	parody	parodying	parolable	parole	paroled	parolee	parolees	paroler	parolers	paroles	paroling	parols	paroquets	paroxysm	paroxysmal	paroxysmic	paroxysms	parquet	parqueted	parqueting	parquetry	parquets	parrakeet	parrakeets	parred	parricidal	parricide	parricides	parried	parries	parring	parrot	parroted	parroter	parroters	parroting	parrots	parroty	parry	parrying	pars	parsable	parse	parsec	parsecs	parsed	parser	parsers	parses	parsimonious	parsimoniously	parsimoniousness	parsimony	parsing	parsley	parsleys	parsnip	parsnips	parson	parsonage	parsonages	parsons	part	partake	partaken	partaker	partakers	partakes	partaking	parte	parted	parterre	parterres	parthenogeneses	parthenogenesis	parthenogenetic	parthenogenic	parthenon	parti	partial	partialities	partiality	partially	partials	partible	participant	participants	participate	participated	participates	participating	participation	participator	participators	participatory	participial	participle	participles	particle	particles	particular	particularities	particularity	particularize	particularized	particularizes	particularizing	particularly	particulars	particulate	partied	parties	parting	partings	partisan	partisans	partisanship	partita	partitas	partition	partitioned	partitioning	partitions	partitive	partizans	partly	partner	partnered	partnering	partners	partnership	partnerships	partook	partridge	partridges	parts	parturition	parturitions	partway	party	partying	parve	parvenu	parvenue	parvenus	pas	pasadena	pascal	paschal	paseo	paseos	pasha	pashas	pashes	paso	pasquinade	pasquinades	pass	passable	passably	passage	passaged	passages	passageway	passageways	passaging	passant	passbook	passbooks	passe	passed	passee	passel	passels	passenger	passengers	passer	passerby	passerine	passers	passersby	passes	passible	passim	passing	passingly	passings	passion	passionate	passionately	passionless	passions	passive	passively	passiveness	passives	passivity	passkey	passkeys	passover	passovers	passport	passports	passway	password	passwords	past	pasta	pastas	paste	pasteboard	pasteboards	pasted	pastel	pastelist	pastelists	pastellist	pastellists	pastels	paster	pastern	pasterns	pasters	pastes	pasteur	pasteurization	pasteurize	pasteurized	pasteurizer	pasteurizers	pasteurizes	pasteurizing	pastiche	pastiches	pastier	pasties	pastiest	pastille	pastilles	pastils	pastime	pastimes	pastina	pastinas	pastiness	pasting	pastor	pastoral	pastorale	pastorales	pastoralism	pastoralist	pastorals	pastorate	pastorates	pastored	pastoring	pastors	pastorship	pastrami	pastramis	pastries	pastry	pasts	pasturage	pastural	pasture	pastured	pasturer	pasturers	pastures	pasturing	pasty	pat	patch	patchable	patched	patcher	patchers	patches	patchier	patchiest	patchily	patchiness	patching	patchwork	patchy	pate	pated	patella	patellae	patellar	patellas	patellate	paten	patencies	patency	patens	patent	patentability	patentable	patentably	patented	patentee	patentees	patenting	patently	patentor	patentors	patents	pater	paterfamilias	paterfamiliases	paternal	paternalism	paternalistic	paternally	paternities	paternity	paternoster	paternosters	paters	pates	path	pathetic	pathetically	pathfinder	pathfinders	pathless	pathogen	pathogeneses	pathogenesis	pathogenetic	pathogenic	pathogenically	pathogenicity	pathogens	pathogeny	pathologic	pathological	pathologically	pathologies	pathologist	pathologists	pathology	pathos	paths	pathway	pathways	patience	patiences	patient	patienter	patientest	patiently	patients	patina	patinas	patio	patios	patly	patness	patnesses	patois	patriarch	patriarchal	patriarchate	patriarchates	patriarchies	patriarchs	patriarchy	patricia	patrician	patricians	patricidal	patricide	patricides	patrick	patrilineal	patrilinear	patrilinies	patriliny	patrimonial	patrimonially	patrimonies	patrimonium	patrimony	patriot	patriotic	patriotically	patriotism	patriots	patristic	patrol	patrolled	patroller	patrollers	patrolling	patrolman	patrolmen	patrols	patrolwoman	patrolwomen	patron	patronage	patronal	patroness	patronesses	patronize	patronized	patronizer	patronizers	patronizes	patronizing	patronly	patrons	patronymic	patronymically	patronymics	patroon	pats	patsies	patsy	patted	pattee	patter	pattered	patterer	patterers	pattering	pattern	patterned	patterning	patterns	patters	pattie	patties	patting	patty	pattypan	pattypans	patulous	paucities	paucity	paul	pauline	paunch	paunches	paunchier	paunchiest	paunchiness	paunchy	pauper	paupered	paupering	pauperism	pauperization	pauperize	pauperized	pauperizes	pauperizing	paupers	pause	paused	pauser	pausers	pauses	pausing	pavan	pavane	pavanes	pavans	pave	paved	pavement	pavements	paver	pavers	paves	pavilion	pavilioned	pavilions	paving	pavings	pavlov	pavlovian	paw	pawed	pawer	pawers	pawing	pawky	pawl	pawls	pawn	pawnable	pawnbroker	pawnbrokers	pawnbroking	pawned	pawnee	pawnees	pawner	pawners	pawning	pawnor	pawns	pawnshop	pawnshops	pawpaw	pawpaws	paws	pax	paxes	pay	payability	payable	payably	payback	paycheck	paychecks	payday	paydays	payed	payee	payees	payer	payers	paying	payload	payloads	paymaster	paymasters	payment	payments	paynim	paynims	payoff	payoffs	payola	payolas	payors	payout	payroll	payrolls	pays	pbx	pc	pct	pea	peace	peaceable	peaceably	peaced	peaceful	peacefully	peacefulness	peacekeeper	peacekeepers	peacekeeping	peacemaker	peacemakers	peacemaking	peaces	peacetime	peach	peached	peacher	peaches	peachier	peachiest	peachy	peacing	peacoat	peacoats	peacock	peacocked	peacockier	peacocking	peacocks	peafowl	peafowls	peahen	peahens	peak	peaked	peakedness	peakier	peakiest	peaking	peakish	peaks	peaky	peal	pealed	pealing	peals	pean	peanut	peanuts	pear	pearl	pearled	pearler	pearlers	pearlier	pearliest	pearling	pearlite	pearlites	pearls	pearly	pears	peart	pearter	peartly	peas	peasant	peasantry	peasants	pease	peases	peashooter	peat	peatier	peatiest	peats	peaty	peavey	peaveys	peavies	peavy	pebble	pebbled	pebbles	pebblier	pebbliest	pebbling	pebbly	pecan	pecans	peccable	peccadillo	peccadilloes	peccadillos	peccaries	peccary	peccavi	peccavis	peck	pecked	pecker	peckers	peckier	pecking	pecks	pecky	pectic	pectin	pectinous	pectins	pectoral	pectorals	pectoris	peculate	peculated	peculates	peculating	peculation	peculations	peculator	peculators	peculiar	peculiarities	peculiarity	peculiarly	peculiars	pecuniarily	pecuniary	ped	pedagog	pedagogic	pedagogical	pedagogically	pedagogies	pedagogs	pedagogue	pedagogues	pedagogy	pedal	pedaled	pedaling	pedalled	pedalling	pedals	pedant	pedantic	pedantically	pedantries	pedantry	pedants	peddlar	peddle	peddled	peddler	peddlers	peddlery	peddles	peddling	pederast	pederastic	pederastically	pederasties	pederasts	pederasty	pedes	pedestal	pedestaled	pedestals	pedestrian	pedestrianism	pedestrians	pediatric	pediatrician	pediatricians	pediatrics	pedicab	pedicabs	pedicure	pedicured	pedicures	pedicuring	pedicurist	pedicurists	pedigree	pedigreed	pedigrees	pediment	pediments	pedlar	pedler	pedologies	pedometer	pedometers	pedophile	pedophilia	pedophiliac	pedophilic	pedro	pedros	peds	peduncle	peduncles	pedunculated	pee	peed	peeing	peek	peekaboo	peekaboos	peeked	peeking	peeks	peel	peelable	peeled	peeler	peelers	peeling	peelings	peels	peen	peened	peening	peens	peep	peeped	peeper	peepers	peephole	peepholes	peeping	peeps	peepshow	peepshows	peer	peerage	peerages	peered	peeress	peeresses	peering	peerless	peerlessly	peers	peery	pees	peeve	peeved	peeves	peeving	peevish	peevishly	peevishness	peewee	peewees	peewit	peewits	peg	pegasus	pegboard	pegboards	pegbox	pegboxes	pegged	pegging	peggy	pegless	pegmatite	pegmatitic	pegs	peignoir	peignoirs	peins	peiping	pejoration	pejorative	pejoratively	pejoratives	pekans	peke	pekes	pekin	pekinese	peking	pekingese	pekins	pekoe	pekoes	pelage	pelagic	pelf	pelfs	pelican	pelicans	pellagra	pellagras	pellagrous	pellet	pelleted	pelleting	pelletize	pelletized	pelletizes	pelletizing	pellets	pellmell	pellmells	pellucid	pellucidly	pelorias	pelt	pelted	pelter	pelters	pelting	pelts	pelves	pelvic	pelvics	pelvis	pelvises	pemmican	pemmicans	pen	penal	penalities	penalization	penalize	penalized	penalizes	penalizing	penally	penalties	penalty	penance	penances	penancing	penang	penates	pence	penchant	penchants	pencil	penciled	penciler	pencilers	penciling	pencilled	pencilling	pencils	pend	pendant	pendants	pended	pendency	pendent	pendently	pendents	pending	pends	pendular	pendulous	pendulum	pendulums	peneplain	peneplains	penes	penetrable	penetrably	penetrate	penetrated	penetrates	penetrating	penetratingly	penetration	penetrations	penetrative	penetrator	penetrators	penguin	penguins	penholder	penicillin	penicillinic	penicillium	penile	peninsula	peninsular	peninsulas	penis	penises	penitence	penitent	penitential	penitentiaries	penitentiary	penitently	penitents	penknife	penknives	penlight	penlights	penlite	penlites	penman	penmanship	penmen	penna	pennae	penname	pennames	pennant	pennants	pennate	penned	penner	penners	penney	pennies	penniless	pennilessness	pennines	penning	pennon	pennoned	pennons	pennsylvania	pennsylvanian	pennsylvanians	penny	pennyroyal	pennyroyals	pennyweight	pennyweights	penologies	penologist	penologists	penology	penpoint	penpoints	pens	pense	pensees	pension	pensionable	pensionary	pensione	pensioned	pensioner	pensioners	pensiones	pensioning	pensionless	pensions	pensive	pensively	pensiveness	penstock	penstocks	pent	pentacle	pentacles	pentad	pentadactyl	pentadactylate	pentadactylism	pentads	pentagon	pentagonal	pentagonally	pentagons	pentalogies	pentameter	pentameters	pentarch	pentateuchal	pentathlon	pentathlons	pentecost	pentecostal	penthouse	penthouses	pentobarbital	pentobarbitone	pentothal	penuche	penuches	penult	penultimate	penults	penumbra	penumbrae	penumbras	penuries	penurious	penuriously	penuriousness	penury	peon	peonage	peonages	peones	peonies	peonism	peonisms	peons	peony	people	peopled	peopler	peoplers	peoples	peopling	pep	peplum	pepped	pepper	pepperbox	peppercorn	peppercorns	peppered	pepperer	pepperers	pepperiness	peppering	peppermint	peppermints	pepperoni	peppers	peppertree	peppery	peppier	peppiest	peppily	peppiness	pepping	peppy	peps	pepsi	pepsin	pepsine	pepsines	pepsins	peptic	peptics	peptide	peptids	per	peradventure	perambulate	perambulated	perambulates	perambulating	perambulation	perambulations	perambulator	perambulators	percale	percales	perceivable	perceivably	perceive	perceived	perceiver	perceivers	perceives	perceiving	percent	percentage	percentaged	percentages	percenter	percentile	percentiles	percents	percept	perceptibility	perceptible	perceptibly	perception	perceptions	perceptive	perceptively	perceptiveness	perceptivity	percepts	perceptual	perceptually	perch	perchance	perched	percher	perchers	perches	perching	percipience	percipient	percolate	percolated	percolates	percolating	percolation	percolator	percolators	percussed	percusses	percussing	percussion	percussional	percussionist	percussionists	percussions	percussor	perdition	perdu	perdue	perdues	perdurability	perdurable	perdus	perdy	pere	peregrinate	peregrination	peregrinations	peregrins	peremption	peremptorily	peremptoriness	peremptory	perennial	perennially	perennials	peres	perfect	perfectability	perfectas	perfected	perfecter	perfecters	perfectest	perfectibility	perfectible	perfecting	perfection	perfectionism	perfectionist	perfectionists	perfections	perfectly	perfectness	perfecto	perfectos	perfects	perfidies	perfidious	perfidiously	perfidy	perforate	perforated	perforates	perforating	perforation	perforations	perforator	perforators	perforce	perform	performable	performance	performances	performed	performer	performers	performing	performs	perfume	perfumed	perfumer	perfumeries	perfumers	perfumery	perfumes	perfuming	perfunctorily	perfunctoriness	perfunctory	perfusing	perfusion	pergola	pergolas	perhaps	perhapses	pericardia	pericardial	pericarditis	pericardium	pericarps	pericles	pericynthion	peridot	peridots	perigee	perigees	perihelia	perihelial	perihelion	peril	periled	periling	perilled	perilling	perilous	perilously	perilousness	perils	perilune	perilunes	perimeter	perimeters	perimetry	perinea	perineal	perineum	period	periodic	periodical	periodically	periodicals	periodicity	periodontal	periodontia	periodontic	periodontics	periodontist	periodontitis	periodontology	periodontoses	periodontosis	periods	peripatetic	peripheral	peripherally	peripherals	peripheries	periphery	periphrases	periphrasis	perique	peris	periscope	periscopes	perish	perishability	perishable	perishableness	perishables	perishably	perished	perishes	perishing	peristalses	peristalsis	peristaltic	peristaltically	peristylar	peristyle	peristyles	peritonea	peritoneal	peritoneally	peritoneum	peritoneums	peritonital	peritonitic	peritonitis	periwig	periwigs	periwinkle	periwinkles	perjure	perjured	perjurer	perjurers	perjures	perjuries	perjuring	perjurious	perjuriously	perjury	perk	perked	perkier	perkiest	perkily	perkiness	perking	perkish	perks	perky	perlites	perlitic	perm	permafrost	permanence	permanencies	permanency	permanent	permanently	permanents	permeability	permeable	permeably	permeate	permeated	permeates	permeating	permeation	permeations	permian	permissable	permissibility	permissible	permissibleness	permissibly	permission	permissions	permissive	permissively	permissiveness	permit	permits	permitted	permittee	permitting	perms	permutation	permutational	permutationist	permutationists	permutations	permute	permuted	permutes	permuting	pernicious	perniciously	perniciousness	peroration	perorations	peroxide	peroxided	peroxides	peroxiding	perpendicular	perpendicularity	perpendicularly	perpendiculars	perpetrate	perpetrated	perpetrates	perpetrating	perpetration	perpetrations	perpetrator	perpetrators	perpetual	perpetually	perpetualness	perpetuate	perpetuated	perpetuates	perpetuating	perpetuation	perpetuator	perpetuators	perpetuities	perpetuity	perpetuum	perplex	perplexed	perplexedly	perplexes	perplexing	perplexities	perplexity	perquisite	perquisites	perry	persecute	persecuted	persecutee	persecutes	persecuting	persecution	persecutions	persecutor	persecutors	perseverance	persevere	persevered	perseveres	persevering	persia	persian	persians	persiflage	persimmon	persimmons	persist	persistance	persisted	persistence	persistency	persistent	persistently	persister	persisters	persisting	persists	persnicketiness	persnickety	person	persona	personable	personableness	personably	personae	personage	personages	personal	personalis	personalism	personalities	personality	personalization	personalize	personalized	personalizes	personalizing	personally	personals	personalties	personalty	personas	personate	personation	personative	personator	personification	personifications	personified	personifier	personifies	personify	personifying	personnel	persons	perspective	perspectives	perspicacious	perspicaciously	perspicaciousness	perspicacity	perspicuity	perspicuous	perspicuously	perspicuousness	perspiration	perspiratory	perspire	perspired	perspires	perspiring	perspiry	persuadable	persuadably	persuade	persuaded	persuader	persuaders	persuades	persuading	persuasion	persuasions	persuasive	persuasively	persuasiveness	pert	pertain	pertained	pertaining	pertains	perter	pertest	pertinacious	pertinacity	pertinence	pertinencies	pertinency	pertinent	pertinently	pertly	pertness	perturb	perturbable	perturbation	perturbational	perturbations	perturbed	perturbing	perturbs	pertussis	peru	peruke	perukes	perusal	perusals	peruse	perused	peruser	perusers	peruses	perusing	peruvian	peruvians	pervade	pervaded	pervader	pervaders	pervades	pervading	pervasion	pervasive	pervasively	pervasiveness	perverse	perversely	perverseness	perversion	perversions	perversities	perversity	perversive	pervert	perverted	pervertedly	pervertedness	perverter	perverting	perverts	pervious	perviousness	peseta	pesetas	peskier	peskiest	peskily	peskiness	pesky	peso	pesos	pessimism	pessimist	pessimistic	pessimistically	pessimists	pest	pester	pestered	pesterer	pesterers	pestering	pesters	pesthole	pestholes	pesticidal	pesticide	pesticides	pestiferous	pestiferously	pestilence	pestilences	pestilent	pestilential	pestilentially	pestilently	pestle	pestled	pestles	pests	pet	petal	petaled	petalled	petals	petard	petards	petcock	petcocks	peter	petered	petering	peters	petersburg	petiolate	petiole	petioles	petit	petite	petites	petition	petitional	petitioned	petitionee	petitioner	petitioners	petitioning	petitions	petits	petnapping	petnappings	petrel	petrels	petri	petrifaction	petrification	petrified	petrifies	petrify	petrifying	petro	petrochemical	petrochemicals	petrochemistry	petrographer	petrographers	petrographic	petrographical	petrography	petrol	petrolatum	petroleous	petroleum	petrologic	petrological	petrologically	petrologist	petrologists	petrology	petrols	petrous	pets	petted	pettedly	petter	petters	petticoat	petticoats	pettier	pettiest	pettifog	pettifogged	pettifogger	pettifoggers	pettifoggery	pettifogging	pettifogs	pettily	pettiness	petting	pettish	pettishly	pettishness	petty	petulance	petulancy	petulant	petulantly	petunia	petunias	peugeot	pew	pewee	pewees	pewit	pewits	pews	pewter	pewterer	pewterers	pewters	peyote	peyotes	peyotl	peyotyl	peyotyls	pf	pfennig	pfennigs	phaeton	phaetons	phage	phages	phagocyte	phagosome	phalange	phalanges	phalanx	phalanxes	phalarope	phalaropes	phalli	phallic	phallically	phallism	phallist	phalloid	phallus	phalluses	phantasied	phantasies	phantasm	phantasmagoria	phantasmagorias	phantasmagoric	phantasmagorical	phantasmagories	phantasmagory	phantasms	phantast	phantasts	phantasy	phantom	phantomlike	phantoms	pharaoh	pharaohs	pharisaic	pharisaical	pharisaically	pharisee	pharisees	pharm	pharmaceutic	pharmaceutical	pharmaceutically	pharmaceuticals	pharmaceutics	pharmacies	pharmacist	pharmacists	pharmacologic	pharmacological	pharmacologies	pharmacologist	pharmacologists	pharmacology	pharmacopeia	pharmacopeias	pharmacopoeia	pharmacopoeias	pharmacy	pharyngal	pharyngeal	pharyngectomies	pharyngectomy	pharynges	pharyngitis	pharynx	pharynxes	phase	phaseal	phased	phaseout	phaseouts	phaser	phasers	phases	phasic	phasing	pheasant	pheasants	phenacetin	phenix	phenobarbital	phenocopies	phenocopy	phenol	phenolic	phenolics	phenological	phenologically	phenolphthalein	phenols	phenomena	phenomenal	phenomenon	phenomenons	phenothiazine	phenotype	phenotypes	phenotypic	phenotypical	phenotypically	phenylketonuria	phenylketonuric	pheromonal	pheromone	pheromones	phew	phi	phial	phials	philadelphia	philadelphian	philadelphians	philander	philandered	philanderer	philanderers	philandering	philanders	philanthropic	philanthropies	philanthropist	philanthropists	philanthropy	philatelic	philatelist	philatelists	philately	philharmonic	philharmonics	philip	philippic	philippics	philippine	philippines	philistine	philistines	philodendron	philodendrons	philol	philological	philologist	philologists	philology	philomel	philomels	philoprogenitive	philos	philosopher	philosophers	philosophic	philosophical	philosophically	philosophies	philosophize	philosophized	philosophizes	philosophizing	philosophy	philter	philtered	philtering	philters	philtre	philtred	philtres	phiz	phlebitis	phlebotomies	phlebotomy	phlegm	phlegmatic	phlegmatical	phlegmatically	phlegmier	phlegmiest	phlegms	phlegmy	phloem	phlox	phloxes	phobia	phobias	phobic	phocomeli	phoebe	phoebes	phoenician	phoenicians	phoenix	phoenixes	phonal	phone	phoned	phoneme	phonemes	phonemic	phonemically	phones	phonetic	phonetically	phonetician	phoneticians	phonetics	phoney	phoneys	phonic	phonically	phonics	phonier	phonies	phoniest	phonily	phoniness	phoning	phono	phonogram	phonogramically	phonogrammic	phonogrammically	phonograph	phonographic	phonographically	phonographs	phonological	phonologist	phonologists	phonology	phonomania	phonons	phonophotography	phonoreception	phonoreceptor	phonos	phons	phony	phooey	phosgene	phosgenes	phosphate	phosphates	phosphatic	phosphene	phosphor	phosphorescence	phosphorescent	phosphorescently	phosphoric	phosphorous	phosphors	phosphorus	photic	photics	photo	photocatalyst	photocell	photocells	photochemical	photochemist	photochemistry	photocompose	photocomposed	photocomposes	photocomposing	photocomposition	photocopied	photocopier	photocopiers	photocopies	photocopy	photocopying	photoed	photoelectric	photoelectrically	photoelectricity	photoelectron	photoengrave	photoengraved	photoengraver	photoengravers	photoengraves	photoengraving	photoengravings	photoflash	photog	photogenic	photogenically	photograph	photographed	photographer	photographers	photographic	photographically	photographing	photographs	photography	photogs	photoinduced	photoing	photojournalism	photojournalist	photojournalists	photoluminescent	photoluminescently	photoluminescents	photomap	photomaps	photomechanical	photometer	photometers	photometric	photometry	photomicrogram	photomicrograph	photomicrographic	photomicrographs	photomicrography	photomural	photomurals	photon	photonegative	photonic	photons	photophilic	photophobia	photophobic	photoplay	photoplays	photoreception	photoreceptive	photoreceptor	photoreduction	photos	photosensitive	photosensitivity	photosensitization	photosensitize	photosensitized	photosensitizer	photosensitizes	photosensitizing	photosphere	photospheres	photospheric	photospherically	photostat	photostated	photostatic	photostating	photostats	photosyntheses	photosynthesis	photosynthesize	photosynthesized	photosynthesizes	photosynthesizing	photosynthetic	photosynthetically	phototherapies	phototherapy	phototrophic	phototropic	phototropically	phototropism	photovoltaic	phrasal	phrase	phrased	phraseology	phrases	phrasing	phrasings	phren	phrenetic	phrenic	phrenologic	phrenological	phrenologically	phrenologies	phrenologist	phrenologists	phrenology	phrensy	phycomycete	phycomycetes	phyla	phylacteries	phylactery	phylae	phylogeny	phylum	phys	physic	physical	physically	physicals	physician	physicianly	physicians	physicist	physicists	physicked	physicks	physicochemical	physics	physiognomic	physiognomical	physiognomically	physiognomies	physiognomist	physiognomy	physiographic	physiography	physiologic	physiological	physiologically	physiologies	physiologist	physiologists	physiology	physiopathologic	physiopathological	physiopathologically	physiotherapies	physiotherapist	physiotherapists	physiotherapy	physique	physiques	physis	pi	pianic	pianissimo	pianist	pianists	piano	pianoforte	pianofortes	pianos	piaster	piasters	piastre	piastres	piazadora	piazza	piazzas	piazze	pibroch	pibrochs	pica	picador	picadores	picadors	picaresque	picaro	picaroon	picarooned	picaroons	picaros	picas	picasso	picayune	picayunes	piccalilli	piccalillis	piccolo	piccolos	pick	pickaback	pickaninnies	pickaninny	pickax	pickaxe	pickaxed	pickaxes	pickaxing	picked	picker	pickerel	pickerels	pickers	picket	picketed	picketer	picketers	picketing	pickets	pickier	pickiest	picking	pickings	pickle	pickled	pickles	pickling	picklock	picklocks	pickpocket	pickpockets	picks	pickup	pickups	pickwickian	pickwicks	picky	picnic	picnicked	picnicker	picnickers	picnicking	picnicky	picnics	picograms	picosecond	picoseconds	picot	picots	picquet	picquets	pics	pictograph	pictographic	pictographs	pictorial	pictorially	pictorials	picture	pictured	picturephone	picturephones	picturer	picturers	pictures	picturesque	picturesquely	picturesqueness	picturing	piddle	piddled	piddler	piddlers	piddles	piddling	pidgin	pidgins	pie	piebald	piebalds	piece	pieced	piecemeal	piecer	piecers	pieces	piecework	pieceworker	pieceworkers	piecing	piecings	piecrust	piecrusts	pied	piedmont	piedmonts	pieing	pieplant	pieplants	pier	pierce	pierced	piercer	piercers	pierces	piercing	piercingly	pierre	pierrot	pierrots	piers	pies	pieta	pietas	pieties	pietism	pietisms	pietist	pietists	piety	piezochemistries	piezochemistry	piezoelectric	piezoelectricity	piezometric	piffle	piffled	piffles	piffling	pig	pigeon	pigeonhole	pigeonholed	pigeonholes	pigeonholing	pigeons	pigged	piggeries	piggery	piggie	piggier	piggies	piggiest	piggin	pigging	piggins	piggish	piggishness	piggy	piggyback	piggybacks	pigheaded	pigheadedness	piglet	piglets	pigment	pigmentation	pigmentations	pigmented	pigmenting	pigments	pigmies	pigmy	pignet	pignorated	pignut	pignuts	pigpen	pigpens	pigs	pigskin	pigskins	pigsticked	pigsties	pigsty	pigtail	pigtails	pigweed	pike	piked	pikeman	pikemen	piker	pikers	pikes	pikestaff	pikestaves	piking	pilaf	pilaff	pilaffs	pilafs	pilar	pilaster	pilastered	pilasters	pilate	pilchard	pilchards	pile	pileate	piled	piles	pileup	pileups	pilfer	pilferage	pilfered	pilferer	pilferers	pilfering	pilfers	pilgrim	pilgrimage	pilgrimages	pilgrims	piling	pilings	pill	pillage	pillaged	pillager	pillagers	pillages	pillaging	pillar	pillared	pillaring	pillars	pillbox	pillboxes	pilled	pilling	pillion	pillions	pilloried	pillories	pillory	pillorying	pillow	pillowcase	pillowcases	pillowed	pillowing	pillows	pillowslip	pillowslips	pillowy	pills	pilose	pilot	pilotage	pilotages	piloted	pilothouse	pilothouses	piloting	pilotings	pilotless	pilots	pilous	pilsener	pilseners	pilsner	pilsners	pima	pimas	pimento	pimentos	pimiento	pimientos	pimp	pimped	pimpernel	pimpernels	pimping	pimple	pimpled	pimples	pimplier	pimpliest	pimpling	pimply	pimps	pin	pinafore	pinafores	pinata	pinatas	pinball	pinballs	pincer	pincers	pinch	pinchbugs	pinched	pincher	pinchers	pinches	pinching	pinchpenny	pincushion	pincushions	pine	pineal	pineapple	pineapples	pinecone	pinecones	pined	pineries	pines	pinesap	pinesaps	pinewood	pinewoods	piney	pinfeather	pinfeathers	pinfold	pinfolded	pinfolding	ping	pinged	pinger	pingers	pinging	pingrasses	pings	pinhead	pinheaded	pinheadedness	pinheads	pinhole	pinholes	pinier	piniest	pining	pinion	pinioned	pinioning	pinions	pink	pinked	pinker	pinkest	pinkeye	pinkie	pinkies	pinking	pinkings	pinkish	pinkishness	pinkly	pinkness	pinko	pinkoes	pinkos	pinks	pinky	pinna	pinnace	pinnaces	pinnacle	pinnacled	pinnacles	pinnacling	pinnae	pinnal	pinnas	pinnate	pinnated	pinnately	pinned	pinner	pinners	pinning	pinnings	pinocchio	pinochle	pinochles	pinocle	pinole	pinoles	pinon	pinones	pinons	pinpoint	pinpointed	pinpointing	pinpoints	pinprick	pinpricked	pinpricks	pins	pinscher	pinschers	pinsetter	pinsetters	pinspotter	pinspotters	pinstripe	pinstriped	pinstripes	pint	pinta	pintail	pintas	pinto	pintoes	pintos	pints	pintsize	pinup	pinups	pinwheel	pinwheels	pinworm	pinworms	piny	pinyon	pinyons	pion	pioneer	pioneered	pioneering	pioneers	pionic	pions	piosity	pious	piously	piousness	pip	pipage	pipe	pipeages	piped	pipedream	pipefish	pipeful	pipefuls	pipeline	pipelined	pipelines	pipelining	piper	pipers	pipes	pipestem	pipestems	pipet	pipets	pipette	pipetted	pipettes	pipetting	pipier	piping	pipingly	pipings	pipit	pipits	pipkin	pipkins	pipped	pippin	pippins	pips	pipsqueak	pipsqueaks	pipy	piquancies	piquancy	piquant	piquantly	pique	piqued	piques	piquet	piquing	piracies	piracy	pirana	piranas	piranha	piranhas	pirate	pirated	pirates	piratic	piratical	pirating	pirog	piroghi	pirogi	pirogue	pirogues	pirojki	piroshki	pirouette	pirouetted	pirouettes	pirouetting	pirozhki	pisa	piscatorial	piscators	pisces	piscicide	piscine	pish	pished	pishes	pishing	pismire	pismires	piss	pissant	pissants	pissed	pisses	pissing	pissoir	pissoirs	pistache	pistachio	pistachios	pistil	pistillate	pistils	pistol	pistole	pistoling	pistolled	pistolling	pistols	piston	pistons	pit	pita	pitapat	pitapats	pitas	pitch	pitchblende	pitched	pitcher	pitchers	pitches	pitchfork	pitchforks	pitchier	pitchiest	pitchily	pitching	pitchman	pitchmen	pitchouts	pitchy	piteous	piteously	piteousness	pitfall	pitfalls	pith	pitheads	pithecanthropus	pithed	pithier	pithiest	pithily	pithiness	pithing	piths	pithy	pitiable	pitiableness	pitiably	pitied	pitier	pitiers	pities	pitiful	pitifuller	pitifully	pitifulness	pitiless	pitilessly	pitilessness	pitman	pitmen	piton	pitons	pits	pitsaw	pittance	pittances	pitted	pitter	pitting	pittings	pituitaries	pituitary	pity	pitying	pityingly	pius	pivot	pivotal	pivotally	pivoted	pivoting	pivots	pix	pixel	pixels	pixes	pixie	pixieish	pixies	pixy	pixyish	pizazz	pizazzes	pizza	pizzas	pizzazz	pizzeria	pizzerias	pizzicato	pizzle	pkg	pkwy	pl	placability	placable	placably	placard	placarded	placarder	placarders	placarding	placards	placate	placated	placater	placaters	placates	placating	placation	place	placeable	placebo	placeboes	placebos	placed	placeholder	placement	placements	placenta	placentae	placental	placentas	placentation	placentography	placentomata	placer	placers	places	placid	placidity	placidly	placidness	placing	plack	placket	plackets	placks	placoid	placque	plagal	plages	plagiaries	plagiarism	plagiarisms	plagiarist	plagiaristic	plagiarists	plagiarize	plagiarized	plagiarizer	plagiarizers	plagiarizes	plagiarizing	plagiary	plague	plagued	plaguer	plaguers	plagues	plaguey	plaguily	plaguing	plaguy	plaice	plaid	plaids	plain	plainclothes	plainclothesman	plainclothesmen	plainer	plainest	plaining	plainly	plainness	plains	plainsman	plainsmen	plainsong	plainspoken	plainspokenness	plaint	plaintiff	plaintiffs	plaintive	plaintively	plaints	plait	plaited	plaiter	plaiters	plaiting	plaitings	plaits	plan	planar	planaria	planarian	planarias	planarity	plane	planed	planeload	planer	planers	planes	planet	planetaria	planetarium	planetariums	planetary	planetesimal	planetesimals	planetoid	planetoids	planetologist	planetologists	planetology	planets	plangency	plangent	planigraphy	planing	planish	planishing	plank	planked	planking	plankings	planks	plankton	planktonic	planktons	planless	planned	planner	planners	planning	plannings	plans	plant	plantain	plantains	plantar	plantation	plantations	planted	planter	planters	planting	plantings	plants	plaque	plaques	plash	plashed	plasher	plashes	plashiest	plashy	plasm	plasma	plasmaphereses	plasmapheresis	plasmas	plasmatic	plasmic	plasmoids	plasms	plaster	plasterboard	plastered	plasterer	plasterers	plastering	plasters	plasterwork	plastery	plastic	plasticity	plasticize	plasticized	plasticizer	plasticizes	plasticizing	plastics	plastron	plastrons	plat	plate	plateau	plateaued	plateauing	plateaus	plateaux	plated	plateful	platefuls	platelet	platelets	platen	platens	plater	platers	plates	platesful	platform	platforms	platier	platies	plating	platings	platinic	platinum	platinums	platitude	platitudes	platitudinous	platitudinously	plato	platonic	platonically	platoon	platooned	platooning	platoons	plats	platted	platter	platters	platting	platy	platypi	platypus	platypuses	platys	plaudit	plaudits	plausibility	plausible	plausibleness	plausibly	plausive	play	playa	playable	playact	playacted	playacting	playacts	playas	playback	playbacks	playbill	playbills	playbook	playbooks	playboy	playboys	played	player	players	playfellow	playfellows	playful	playfully	playfulness	playgirl	playgirls	playgoer	playgoers	playground	playgrounds	playhouse	playhouses	playing	playland	playlands	playlet	playlets	playmate	playmates	playoff	playoffs	playpen	playpens	playroom	playrooms	plays	playsuit	playsuits	plaything	playthings	playtime	playtimes	playwear	playwears	playwright	playwrights	plaza	plazas	plea	plead	pleadable	pleaded	pleader	pleaders	pleading	pleadings	pleads	pleas	pleasant	pleasanter	pleasantly	pleasantness	pleasantries	pleasantry	please	pleased	pleaser	pleasers	pleases	pleasing	pleasingly	pleasingness	pleasurable	pleasurably	pleasure	pleasured	pleasureful	pleasures	pleasuring	pleat	pleated	pleater	pleaters	pleating	pleats	plebe	plebeian	plebeians	plebes	plebescite	plebian	plebiscite	plebiscites	plebs	plectra	plectrum	plectrums	pled	pledge	pledged	pledgee	pledgees	pledgeholder	pledger	pledgers	pledges	pledging	pleiades	pleistocene	plena	plenarily	plenary	plenipotentiaries	plenipotentiary	plenished	plenishes	plenitude	plenteous	plenteousness	plenties	plentiful	plentifully	plentifulness	plentitude	plenty	plenum	plenums	plethora	plethoras	plethoric	pleura	pleural	pleuras	pleurisies	pleurisy	pleuritis	plexiglas	plexiglass	plexus	plexuses	pliability	pliable	pliably	pliancies	pliancy	pliant	pliantly	plied	plier	pliers	plies	plight	plighted	plighter	plighters	plighting	plights	plink	plinked	plinker	plinks	plinth	plinths	pliocene	plisse	plod	plodded	plodder	plodders	plodding	ploddingly	plods	plonk	plonked	plonking	plonks	plop	plopped	plopping	plops	plosions	plosive	plosives	plot	plotless	plots	plottage	plottages	plotted	plotter	plotters	plottier	plotties	plottiest	plotting	plough	ploughed	plougher	ploughers	ploughing	ploughman	ploughs	plover	plovers	plow	plowable	plowboy	plowboys	plowed	plower	plowers	plowing	plowlands	plowman	plowmen	plows	plowshare	plowshares	ploy	ployed	ploying	ploys	pluck	plucked	plucker	pluckers	pluckier	pluckiest	pluckily	pluckiness	plucking	plucks	plucky	plug	plugged	plugger	pluggers	plugging	plugs	pluguglies	plugugly	plum	plumage	plumaged	plumages	plumb	plumbable	plumbed	plumber	plumberies	plumbers	plumbery	plumbing	plumbings	plumbism	plumbs	plume	plumed	plumelet	plumelets	plumes	plumier	plumiest	pluming	plummet	plummeted	plummeting	plummets	plummier	plummiest	plummy	plump	plumped	plumpened	plumpening	plumpens	plumper	plumpers	plumpest	plumping	plumpish	plumply	plumpness	plumps	plums	plumy	plunder	plunderable	plunderage	plundered	plunderer	plunderers	plundering	plunders	plunge	plunged	plunger	plungers	plunges	plunging	plunk	plunked	plunker	plunkers	plunking	plunks	pluperfect	pluperfects	plural	pluralism	pluralities	plurality	pluralization	pluralize	pluralized	pluralizes	pluralizing	plurally	plurals	pluribus	plus	pluses	plush	plusher	plushes	plushest	plushier	plushiest	plushily	plushly	plushy	plussages	plusses	plutarch	pluto	plutocracies	plutocracy	plutocrat	plutocratic	plutocrats	pluton	plutonic	plutonism	plutonium	plutons	pluvial	pluvially	ply	plyer	plyers	plying	plymouth	plymouths	plywood	plywoods	pm	pneuma	pneumas	pneumatic	pneumatically	pneumaticity	pneumococcal	pneumococci	pneumococcic	pneumococcus	pneumoconiosis	pneumonia	pneumonic	pneumonitis	po	poach	poached	poacher	poachers	poaches	poachier	poachiest	poaching	poachy	pock	pocked	pocket	pocketbook	pocketbooks	pocketed	pocketer	pocketers	pocketful	pocketfuls	pocketing	pocketknife	pocketknives	pockets	pockier	pockily	pocking	pockmark	pockmarked	pockmarks	pocks	pocky	poco	pod	podded	podgier	podgily	podgy	podia	podiatric	podiatries	podiatrist	podiatrists	podiatry	podium	podiums	pods	poem	poems	poesies	poesy	poet	poetaster	poetasters	poetess	poetesses	poetic	poetical	poetically	poetics	poetise	poetize	poetized	poetizer	poetizers	poetizes	poetizing	poetries	poetry	poets	pogrom	pogromed	pogroming	pogroms	poi	poignancy	poignant	poignantly	poilu	poilus	poinciana	poincianas	poinsettia	poinsettias	point	pointblank	pointe	pointed	pointedly	pointedness	pointer	pointers	pointes	pointier	pointiest	pointillism	pointillist	pointillists	pointing	pointless	pointlessly	pointlessness	pointman	pointmen	points	pointy	poise	poised	poiser	poisers	poises	poising	poison	poisoned	poisoner	poisoners	poisoning	poisonings	poisonous	poisonously	poisonousness	poisons	poke	poked	poker	pokers	pokes	pokeweed	pokeweeds	pokey	pokeys	pokier	pokies	pokiest	pokily	pokiness	poking	poky	pol	poland	polar	polarimeter	polarimetric	polarimetries	polarimetry	polaris	polariscope	polariscopic	polarities	polarity	polarization	polarizations	polarize	polarized	polarizer	polarizes	polarizing	polarographic	polarography	polaroid	polaroids	polars	polder	polders	pole	poleax	poleaxe	poleaxed	poleaxes	poleaxing	polecat	polecats	poled	polemic	polemical	polemically	polemicist	polemicists	polemics	polemist	polemists	polemize	polemized	polemizes	polemizing	polenta	polentas	poler	polers	poles	polestar	polestars	poleward	police	policed	policeman	policemen	polices	policewoman	policewomen	policies	policing	policy	policyholder	policyholders	poling	polio	poliomyelitic	poliomyelitis	polios	polis	polish	polished	polisher	polishers	polishes	polishing	polit	politburo	polite	politely	politeness	politer	politesse	politest	politic	political	politically	politician	politicians	politicize	politicized	politicizes	politicizing	politick	politicked	politicking	politicks	politico	politicoes	politicos	politics	polities	polity	polk	polka	polkaed	polkaing	polkas	poll	pollack	pollacks	pollard	pollarding	pollards	pollbook	polled	pollee	pollees	pollen	pollened	pollens	poller	pollers	pollinate	pollinated	pollinates	pollinating	pollination	pollinator	pollinators	polling	pollist	polliwog	polliwogs	polloi	polls	pollster	pollsters	pollutant	pollutants	pollute	polluted	polluter	polluters	pollutes	polluting	pollution	pollywog	pollywogs	polo	poloist	poloists	polonaise	polonaises	polonium	poloniums	pols	poltergeist	poltergeists	poltroon	poltroonery	poltroons	poly	polyandric	polyandries	polyandrist	polyandrous	polyandry	polychromatic	polychromia	polyclinic	polyclinics	polydactylies	polydactylism	polydactylous	polydactyly	polyester	polyesters	polyethylene	polygamic	polygamies	polygamist	polygamists	polygamous	polygamy	polyglot	polyglots	polygon	polygonal	polygonally	polygons	polygony	polygram	polygraph	polygraphic	polygraphically	polygraphs	polyhedra	polyhedral	polyhedron	polyhedrons	polymath	polymaths	polymer	polymeric	polymerically	polymerization	polymerize	polymerized	polymerizes	polymerizing	polymers	polymorph	polymorphic	polymorphically	polymorphism	polymorphous	polymorphously	polynesia	polynesian	polynesians	polynomial	polynomials	polyp	polyphonic	polyphonically	polyphony	polyploid	polypod	polypoid	polypous	polyps	polypus	polys	polysaccharide	polysorbate	polystyrene	polysyllabic	polysyllable	polysyllables	polytechnic	polytheism	polytheist	polytheistic	polytheists	polyunsaturated	polyvinyl	pomade	pomaded	pomades	pomading	pomander	pomanders	pomatums	pome	pomegranate	pomegranates	pomeranian	pomeranians	pomes	pommel	pommeled	pommeling	pommelled	pommelling	pommels	pomp	pompadour	pompadours	pompano	pompanos	pompeii	pompom	pompoms	pompon	pompons	pomposity	pompous	pompously	pompousness	pomps	ponce	ponces	poncho	ponchos	pond	ponder	ponderable	pondered	ponderer	ponderers	pondering	ponderosa	ponderous	ponderously	ponderousness	ponders	ponds	pondweed	pondweeds	pone	pones	pong	pongee	pongees	pongid	poniard	poniarded	poniards	ponied	ponies	pons	pontes	pontiac	pontiacs	pontiff	pontiffs	pontifical	pontifically	pontificate	pontificated	pontificates	pontificating	pontificator	pontius	ponton	pontons	pontoon	pontoons	pony	ponying	ponytail	ponytails	pooch	pooches	poodle	poodles	pooh	poohed	poohing	poohs	pool	pooled	poolhall	poolhalls	pooling	poolroom	poolrooms	pools	poop	pooped	pooping	poops	poopsie	poor	poorer	poorest	poorhouse	poorhouses	poorish	poorly	poorness	pop	popcorn	popcorns	pope	popedom	popedoms	poperies	popery	popes	popeye	popeyed	popgun	popguns	popinjay	popinjays	popish	popishly	poplar	poplars	poplin	poplins	popover	popovers	poppa	poppas	popped	popper	poppers	poppet	poppets	poppied	poppies	popping	poppy	poppycock	pops	populace	populaces	popular	popularity	popularization	popularizations	popularize	popularized	popularizes	popularizing	popularly	populate	populated	populates	populating	population	populations	populi	populism	populisms	populist	populists	populous	populousness	porcelain	porcelains	porch	porches	porcine	porcupine	porcupines	pore	pored	pores	porgies	porgy	poring	pork	porker	porkers	porkier	porkies	porkiest	porkpie	porkpies	porks	porky	porn	porno	pornographer	pornographic	pornographically	pornographies	pornography	pornos	porns	porose	porosities	porosity	porous	porously	porousness	porphyries	porphyritic	porphyry	porpoise	porpoises	porridge	porridges	porringer	porringers	port	portability	portable	portables	portably	portage	portaged	portages	portaging	portal	portaled	portalled	portals	portcullis	portcullises	ported	portend	portended	portending	portends	portent	portentous	portentously	portentousness	portents	porter	porterhouse	porters	portfolio	portfolios	porthole	portholes	portico	porticoed	porticoes	porticos	portiere	portiered	portieres	porting	portion	portioned	portioner	portioners	portiones	portioning	portionless	portions	portland	portless	portlier	portliest	portliness	portly	portmanteau	portmanteaus	portmanteaux	portrait	portraitist	portraitists	portraits	portraiture	portray	portrayal	portrayals	portrayed	portraying	portrays	portress	portresses	ports	portugal	portuguese	portulaca	portulacas	pose	posed	poseidon	poser	posers	poses	poseur	poseurs	posh	posher	poshest	poshly	poshness	posies	posing	posingly	posit	posited	positing	position	positional	positioned	positioning	positions	positive	positively	positiveness	positiver	positives	positivest	positron	positrons	posits	posology	posse	posses	possess	possessable	possessed	possesses	possessible	possessing	possession	possessions	possessive	possessively	possessiveness	possessives	possessor	possessors	possessory	possets	possibilities	possibility	possible	possibler	possiblest	possibly	possum	possums	post	postage	postages	postal	postally	postals	postaxial	postbag	postbags	postbellum	postbox	postboxes	postboy	postboys	postcard	postcardinal	postcards	postclassical	postcoital	postconsonantal	postconvalescent	postconvalescents	postdate	postdated	postdates	postdating	postdigestive	postdoctoral	posted	postelection	poster	posterior	posteriority	posteriorly	posteriors	posterities	posterity	postern	posterns	posters	postfaces	postfix	postfixed	postfixes	postfixing	postformed	postforms	postglacial	postgraduate	postgraduates	posthaste	posthole	postholes	posthumous	posthumously	posthypnotic	posthypnotically	postilion	postilions	posting	postings	postlude	postludes	postman	postmark	postmarked	postmarking	postmarks	postmaster	postmasters	postmen	postmenopausal	postmenstrual	postmillennial	postmistress	postmistresses	postmortem	postmortems	postnasal	postnatal	postnatally	postnuptial	postoffice	postoperative	postoperatively	postorbital	postpaid	postpartum	postpone	postponed	postponement	postponements	postpones	postponing	postprandial	postprandially	postprocessing	posts	postscript	postscripts	postseason	postseasonal	posttraumatic	posttreatment	postulant	postulants	postulate	postulated	postulates	postulating	postulation	postulations	postulator	postural	posture	postured	posturer	posturers	postures	posturing	postwar	posy	pot	potability	potable	potables	potage	potages	potash	potashes	potassium	potation	potations	potato	potatoes	potbellied	potbellies	potbelly	potboiled	potboiler	potboilers	potboiling	potboy	potboys	poteen	poteens	potence	potences	potencies	potency	potent	potentate	potentates	potential	potentialities	potentiality	potentially	potentials	potentiate	potentiated	potentiates	potentiating	potentiation	potentiator	potentiometer	potentiometers	potentiometric	potently	potful	potfuls	pothead	potheads	pother	potherb	potherbs	potholder	potholders	pothole	potholed	potholes	pothook	pothooks	pothouse	pothouses	potion	potions	potlach	potlatch	potluck	potlucks	potman	potmen	potomac	potpie	potpies	potpourri	potpourris	pots	potshard	potsherd	potsherds	potshot	potshots	potsie	potsies	potsy	pottage	pottages	potted	potteen	potter	pottered	potterer	potterers	potteries	pottering	potters	pottery	pottier	potties	potting	potty	pouch	pouched	pouches	pouchiest	pouching	pouchy	pouf	poufed	pouff	pouffe	pouffed	pouffes	pouffs	poufs	poult	poultice	poulticed	poultices	poulticing	poultries	poultry	poults	pounce	pounced	pouncer	pouncers	pounces	pouncing	pound	poundage	poundages	poundals	pounded	pounder	pounders	pounding	poundkeeper	pounds	pour	pourable	pourboire	pourboires	poured	pourer	pourers	pouring	pours	pout	pouted	pouter	pouters	poutier	poutiest	pouting	pouts	pouty	poverties	poverty	pow	powder	powdered	powderer	powderers	powdering	powders	powdery	power	powerboat	powerboats	powered	powerful	powerfully	powerfulness	powerhouse	powerhouses	powering	powerless	powerlessly	powerplants	powers	pows	powwow	powwowed	powwowing	powwows	pox	poxed	poxes	poxing	pp	ppd	practicabilities	practicability	practicable	practicably	practical	practicality	practically	practice	practiced	practices	practicing	practising	practitioner	practitioners	praecoces	praecox	praesidia	praetor	praetorian	praetors	pragmatic	pragmatical	pragmatically	pragmatism	pragmatist	pragmatists	prague	prairie	prairies	praise	praised	praiser	praisers	praises	praiseworthily	praiseworthiness	praiseworthy	praising	praline	pralines	pram	prams	prana	prance	pranced	prancer	prancers	prances	prancing	prancingly	prandial	prank	pranked	prankish	pranks	prankster	pranksters	praos	praseodymium	prat	prate	prated	prater	praters	prates	pratfall	pratfalls	prating	pratique	pratiques	prats	prattle	prattled	prattler	prattlers	prattles	prattling	praus	prawn	prawned	prawner	prawners	prawning	prawns	praxeological	praxes	praxis	praxises	pray	prayed	prayer	prayerful	prayerfully	prayerfulness	prayers	praying	prayingly	prays	pre	preaccept	preacceptance	preacceptances	preaccepted	preaccepting	preaccepts	preaccustom	preaccustomed	preaccustoming	preaccustoms	preach	preached	preacher	preachers	preaches	preachier	preachiest	preaching	preachings	preachment	preachments	preachy	preadapt	preadapted	preadapting	preadapts	preadjust	preadjustable	preadjusted	preadjusting	preadjustment	preadjustments	preadjusts	preadmit	preadolescence	preadolescent	preadolescents	preadult	preadults	preaffirm	preaffirmation	preaffirmed	preaffirming	preaffirms	preallot	preallots	preallotted	preallotting	preamble	preambles	preamp	preamplifier	preamplifiers	preamps	preanesthetic	preannounce	preannounced	preannouncement	preannouncements	preannounces	preannouncing	preappearance	preappearances	preapplication	preapplications	preappoint	preappointed	preappointing	preappoints	prearm	prearmed	prearming	prearms	prearrange	prearranged	prearrangement	prearranges	prearranging	preascertain	preascertained	preascertaining	preascertainment	preascertains	preassemble	preassembled	preassembles	preassembling	preassembly	preassign	preassigned	preassigning	preassigns	preaxial	preaxially	prebend	prebendaries	prebendary	prebends	prebill	prebilled	prebilling	prebills	prebless	preblessed	preblesses	preblessing	preboil	preboiled	preboiling	preboils	precalculate	precalculated	precalculates	precalculating	precalculation	precalculations	precambrian	precancel	precanceled	precanceling	precancelled	precancelling	precancels	precancerous	precapitalistic	precarious	precariously	precariousness	precast	precaution	precautionary	precautions	precedable	precede	preceded	precedence	precedent	precedentless	precedents	precedes	preceding	preceeding	precelebration	precelebrations	precented	precentor	precentors	precept	preceptor	preceptors	preceptress	preceptresses	precepts	precess	precessed	precesses	precessing	precession	precessional	precessions	prechill	prechilled	prechilling	prechills	precinct	precincts	preciosities	preciosity	precious	preciously	preciousness	precipice	precipiced	precipices	precipitability	precipitable	precipitancy	precipitant	precipitate	precipitated	precipitately	precipitateness	precipitates	precipitating	precipitation	precipitations	precipitous	precipitously	precipitousness	precis	precise	precised	precisely	preciseness	preciser	precises	precisest	precisian	precisians	precising	precision	precivilization	preclean	precleaned	precleaning	precleans	preclude	precluded	precludes	precluding	preclusion	preclusively	precocious	precociously	precociousness	precocity	precognition	precognitions	precognitive	precollege	precollegiate	preconceal	preconcealed	preconcealing	preconcealment	preconceals	preconceive	preconceived	preconceives	preconceiving	preconception	preconceptions	preconcession	preconcessions	precondemn	precondemnation	precondemned	precondemning	precondemns	precondition	preconditioned	preconditioning	preconditions	preconscious	preconsideration	preconsiderations	preconstruct	preconstructed	preconstructing	preconstruction	preconstructs	preconsultation	preconsultations	precontrive	precontrived	precontrives	precontriving	precook	precooked	precooking	precooks	precooled	precooling	precools	precox	precursor	precursors	precursory	precut	predacious	predaciousness	predacity	predate	predated	predates	predating	predation	predations	predator	predatorial	predatoriness	predators	predatory	predawn	predawns	predecease	predeceased	predeceases	predeceasing	predecessor	predecessors	predefined	predefining	predepression	predesignate	predesignated	predesignates	predesignating	predesignation	predestinarian	predestinate	predestinated	predestinates	predestinating	predestination	predestine	predestined	predestines	predestining	predetermination	predeterminations	predetermine	predetermined	predetermines	predetermining	prediagnostic	predicable	predicament	predicaments	predicate	predicated	predicates	predicating	predication	predications	predicative	predicator	predicatory	predict	predictability	predictable	predictably	predicted	predicting	prediction	predictions	predictive	predictively	predictiveness	predictor	predictors	predicts	predigest	predigested	predigesting	predigestion	predigests	predilection	predilections	predispose	predisposed	predisposes	predisposing	predisposition	predispositions	predominance	predominant	predominantly	predominate	predominated	predominately	predominates	predominating	predomination	predusks	preelection	preemie	preemies	preeminence	preeminent	preeminently	preempt	preempted	preempting	preemption	preemptions	preemptive	preemptively	preemptory	preempts	preen	preened	preener	preeners	preengage	preengaged	preengages	preengaging	preening	preenlistment	preenlistments	preens	preestablish	preestablished	preestablishes	preestablishing	preestimate	preestimated	preestimates	preestimating	preexamination	preexaminations	preexamine	preexamined	preexamines	preexamining	preexist	preexisted	preexisting	preexists	preexpose	preexposed	preexposes	preexposing	preexposure	preexposures	prefab	prefabbed	prefabbing	prefabricate	prefabricated	prefabricates	prefabricating	prefabrication	prefabs	preface	prefaced	prefacer	prefacers	prefaces	prefacing	prefatory	prefect	prefects	prefecture	prefectures	prefer	preferability	preferable	preferably	preference	preferences	preferential	preferentially	preferment	preferments	preferred	preferrer	preferrers	preferring	prefers	prefigure	prefigured	prefigures	prefiguring	prefix	prefixal	prefixally	prefixed	prefixes	prefixing	prefixion	prefixions	preform	preformed	preforming	preforms	pregame	preglacial	pregnancies	pregnancy	pregnant	pregnantly	preharden	prehardened	prehardening	prehardens	preheat	preheated	preheating	preheats	prehensile	prehensility	prehistoric	prehistorical	prehistorically	prehistory	prehuman	preinaugural	preindustrial	preinsert	preinserted	preinserting	preinserts	preinstruct	preinstructed	preinstructing	preinstruction	preinstructs	preintimation	prejudge	prejudged	prejudger	prejudges	prejudging	prejudgment	prejudgments	prejudice	prejudiced	prejudicedly	prejudices	prejudicial	prejudicially	prejudicing	prekindergarten	prekindergartens	prelacies	prelacy	prelate	prelates	prelatic	prelim	preliminaries	preliminarily	preliminary	prelimit	prelimited	prelimiting	prelimits	prelims	preliterate	prelude	preluded	preluder	preludes	premarital	premature	prematurely	prematureness	prematurities	premed	premedical	premedics	premeditate	premeditated	premeditatedly	premeditatedness	premeditates	premeditating	premeditation	premeditative	premeditator	premeditators	premeds	premenstrual	premenstrually	premie	premier	premiere	premiered	premieres	premiering	premiers	premiership	premierships	premies	premise	premised	premises	premising	premiss	premisses	premium	premiums	premix	premixed	premixes	premixing	premolar	premolars	premonition	premonitions	premonitory	prename	prenames	prenatal	prenatally	prentice	prenticed	prentices	prenticing	prenuptial	preoccupation	preoccupations	preoccupied	preoccupies	preoccupy	preoccupying	preoperative	preordain	preordained	preordaining	preordains	preordination	preorganization	prep	prepack	prepackage	prepackaged	prepackages	prepackaging	prepacked	prepacking	prepacks	prepaid	preparation	preparations	preparatorily	preparatory	prepare	prepared	preparedness	preparer	preparers	prepares	preparing	prepay	prepaying	prepayment	prepayments	prepays	preplan	preplanned	preplanning	preplans	preponderance	preponderant	preponderantly	preponderate	preponderated	preponderates	preponderating	preposition	prepositional	prepositions	prepossess	prepossessed	prepossesses	prepossessing	prepossessingly	prepossessingness	prepossession	prepossessions	preposterous	preposterously	preposterousness	prepped	preppie	preppies	prepping	preprint	preprinted	preprints	preprocessing	preprocessor	preprogrammed	preps	prepsychotic	prepubescence	prepubescent	prepublication	prepuce	prepuces	prepunch	prerecord	prerecorded	prerecording	prerecords	preregister	preregistered	preregistering	preregisters	preregistration	prereproductive	prerequisite	prerequisites	prerogative	prerogatives	pres	presage	presaged	presager	presagers	presages	presaging	presanctified	presbyope	presbyopia	presbyopic	presbyter	presbyterian	presbyterianism	presbyterians	presbyters	preschool	preschooler	preschoolers	prescience	prescient	prescientific	prescore	prescored	prescores	prescoring	prescribable	prescribe	prescribed	prescriber	prescribes	prescribing	prescript	prescription	prescriptions	prescriptive	prescripts	preseason	preselect	preselected	preselecting	preselects	presell	presells	presence	presences	present	presentability	presentable	presentably	presentation	presentations	presented	presentence	presenter	presenters	presentiment	presentiments	presenting	presently	presentment	presents	preservable	preservation	preservations	preservative	preservatives	preserve	preserved	preserver	preservers	preserves	preserving	preset	presets	presetting	preshape	preshaped	preshapes	preshrunk	preside	presided	presidencies	presidency	president	presidential	presidents	presider	presiders	presides	presiding	presidio	presidios	presidium	presidiums	presift	presifted	presifting	presifts	preslavery	presley	presoak	presoaked	presoaking	presoaks	presold	press	pressed	presser	pressers	presses	pressing	pressingly	pressingness	pressings	pressman	pressmark	pressmen	pressor	pressoreceptor	pressosensitive	pressroom	pressrooms	pressrun	pressruns	pressure	pressured	pressures	pressuring	pressurization	pressurize	pressurized	pressurizer	pressurizers	pressurizes	pressurizing	presswork	prest	prestamp	prestidigitation	prestidigitator	prestidigitators	prestige	prestigeful	prestiges	prestigious	prestigiously	prestigiousness	presto	prestos	prestressed	presumable	presumably	presume	presumed	presumer	presumers	presumes	presuming	presumption	presumptions	presumptive	presumptively	presumptuous	presumptuously	presumptuousness	presuppose	presupposed	presupposes	presupposing	presupposition	presuppositions	presurgical	presynaptically	pretaste	preteen	preteens	pretence	pretences	pretend	pretended	pretendedly	pretender	pretenders	pretending	pretends	pretense	pretensed	pretenses	pretension	pretensions	pretention	pretentious	pretentiously	pretentiousness	preterit	preterits	preterminal	preternatural	preternaturally	pretest	pretested	pretesting	pretests	pretext	pretexts	pretor	pretoria	pretors	pretrial	prettied	prettier	pretties	prettiest	prettification	prettified	prettifier	prettifiers	prettifies	prettify	prettifying	prettily	prettiness	pretty	prettying	pretzel	pretzels	preunion	prevail	prevailed	prevailer	prevailers	prevailing	prevailingly	prevails	prevalence	prevalent	prevalently	prevaricate	prevaricated	prevaricates	prevaricating	prevarication	prevarications	prevaricator	prevaricators	prevent	preventability	preventable	preventative	preventatives	prevented	preventible	preventing	prevention	preventions	preventive	preventively	preventiveness	preventives	preventorium	prevents	preview	previewed	previewing	previews	previous	previously	prevocational	prevue	prevued	prevues	prevuing	prewar	prewarm	prewarmed	prewarming	prewarms	prewarned	prewash	prewashed	prewashes	prewashing	prexies	prexy	prey	preyed	preyer	preyers	preying	preys	priapic	priapism	priapisms	priapuses	price	priced	priceless	pricelessness	pricer	pricers	prices	pricey	pricier	priciest	pricing	prick	pricked	pricker	prickers	prickier	prickiest	pricking	prickle	prickled	prickles	pricklier	prickliest	prickliness	prickling	prickly	pricks	pricky	pricy	pride	prided	prideful	pridefully	prides	priding	pried	priedieus	priedieux	prier	priers	pries	priest	priested	priestess	priestesses	priesthood	priesting	priestlier	priestliness	priestly	priests	prig	priggery	priggish	priggishly	priggishness	prigs	prim	prima	primacies	primacy	primal	primaries	primarily	primariness	primary	primas	primate	primates	primatial	prime	primed	primely	primer	primero	primeros	primers	primes	primeval	primevally	primigenial	priming	primings	primitive	primitively	primitiveness	primitives	primitivism	primitivity	primly	primmed	primmer	primmest	primming	primness	primo	primogenitor	primogenitors	primogeniture	primordial	primordially	primos	primp	primped	primping	primps	primrose	primroses	prims	primulas	primus	primuses	prince	princedom	princedoms	princelier	princeliness	princeling	princelings	princely	princes	princess	princesses	princeton	principal	principalities	principality	principally	principals	principle	principled	principles	prink	prinked	prinking	prinks	print	printable	printed	printer	printers	printery	printing	printings	printout	printouts	prints	prior	priorate	priorates	prioress	prioresses	priori	priories	priorities	priority	priors	priory	prise	prised	prises	prism	prismatic	prismoid	prismoids	prisms	prison	prisoned	prisoner	prisoners	prisoning	prisons	priss	prisses	prissier	prissies	prissiest	prissily	prissiness	prissy	pristine	prithee	privacies	privacy	private	privateer	privateers	privately	privateness	privater	privates	privatest	privation	privations	privatized	privatizing	privet	privets	privier	privies	priviest	privilege	privileged	privileges	privileging	privily	privities	privity	privy	prix	prize	prized	prizefight	prizefighter	prizefighters	prizefighting	prizefights	prizer	prizers	prizes	prizewinner	prizewinners	prizewinning	prizing	pro	proabortion	proadministration	proadoption	proalliance	proamendment	proapproval	proas	probabilities	probability	probable	probably	probate	probated	probates	probating	probation	probational	probationary	probationer	probationers	probations	probative	probatively	probe	probeable	probed	prober	probers	probes	probing	probities	probity	problem	problematic	problematical	problems	proboscides	proboscis	proboscises	proboycott	probusiness	proc	procaine	procapitalist	procapitalists	procathedral	procathedrals	procedural	procedurally	procedurals	procedure	procedures	proceed	proceeded	proceeder	proceeders	proceeding	proceedings	proceeds	process	processed	processes	processing	procession	processional	processionally	processionals	processions	processor	processors	prochurch	proclaim	proclaimed	proclaimer	proclaimers	proclaiming	proclaims	proclamation	proclamations	proclerical	proclivities	proclivity	procommunism	procommunist	procommunists	procompromise	proconservation	proconsul	proconsular	proconsulate	proconsulates	proconsuls	proconsulship	proconsulships	procrastinate	procrastinated	procrastinates	procrastinating	procrastination	procrastinator	procrastinators	procreate	procreated	procreates	procreating	procreation	procreative	procreativity	procreator	procreators	procrustean	proctologic	proctological	proctologies	proctologist	proctologists	proctology	proctor	proctored	proctorial	proctoring	proctors	proctorship	proctoscope	proctoscopes	proctoscopic	proctoscopically	proctoscopies	proctoscopy	procurable	procural	procurals	procuration	procurator	procurators	procure	procured	procurement	procurer	procurers	procures	procuress	procuresses	procuring	prod	prodded	prodder	prodders	prodding	prodemocratic	prodigal	prodigality	prodigally	prodigals	prodigies	prodigious	prodigiously	prodigiousness	prodigy	prodisarmament	prods	produce	produced	producer	producers	produces	producible	producing	product	production	productions	productive	productively	productiveness	productivity	products	proem	proems	proenforcement	prof	profanation	profanations	profanatory	profane	profaned	profanely	profaneness	profaner	profaners	profanes	profaning	profanities	profanity	profascist	profascists	profeminist	profeminists	profess	professed	professedly	professes	professing	profession	professional	professionalism	professionalist	professionalists	professionalize	professionally	professionals	professions	professor	professorate	professorial	professoriate	professors	professorship	professorships	proffer	proffered	profferer	profferers	proffering	proffers	proficiency	proficient	proficiently	profile	profiled	profiler	profilers	profiles	profiling	profit	profitability	profitable	profitableness	profitably	profited	profiteer	profiteered	profiteering	profiteers	profiter	profiters	profiting	profitless	profits	profligacy	profligate	profligately	profligates	proforma	profound	profounder	profoundest	profoundly	profoundness	profounds	profs	profundities	profundity	profuse	profusely	profuseness	profusion	progenies	progenitive	progenitor	progenitors	progeny	prognathous	prognose	prognosed	prognoses	prognosis	prognostic	prognosticate	prognosticated	prognosticates	prognosticating	prognostication	prognostications	prognosticator	prognosticators	progovernment	program	programable	programed	programer	programers	programing	programmability	programmable	programmata	programmatic	programmatically	programme	programmed	programmer	programmers	programmes	programming	programs	progress	progressed	progresses	progressing	progression	progressional	progressionist	progressions	progressive	progressively	progressiveness	progressives	progs	prohibit	prohibited	prohibiting	prohibition	prohibitionist	prohibitionists	prohibitions	prohibitive	prohibitively	prohibitor	prohibitory	prohibits	proindustry	prointegration	prointervention	project	projected	projectile	projectiles	projecting	projection	projectionist	projectionists	projections	projector	projectors	projects	prolabor	prolapse	prolapsed	prolapses	prolapsing	prolate	prole	prolegomena	prolegomenon	proles	proletarian	proletarianize	proletarians	proletariat	proletariate	proliferate	proliferated	proliferates	proliferating	proliferation	proliferations	proliferative	proliferous	proliferously	prolific	prolifically	prolificness	prolix	prolixity	prolixly	prolog	prologed	prologing	prologs	prologue	prologued	prologues	prologuing	prolong	prolongation	prolongations	prolonged	prolonges	prolonging	prolongs	prom	promenade	promenaded	promenader	promenaders	promenades	promenading	promethean	prometheus	promethium	promilitary	prominence	prominences	prominent	prominently	promiscuities	promiscuity	promiscuous	promiscuously	promiscuousness	promise	promised	promisee	promisees	promiser	promisers	promises	promising	promisingly	promisor	promisors	promissory	promodern	promonarchist	promonarchists	promontories	promontory	promotable	promote	promoted	promoter	promoters	promotes	promoting	promotion	promotional	promotions	prompt	promptbook	promptbooks	prompted	prompter	prompters	promptest	prompting	promptitude	promptly	promptness	prompts	proms	promulgate	promulgated	promulgates	promulgating	promulgation	promulgations	promulgator	promulgators	promulged	promulges	promulging	pron	pronate	pronating	pronation	pronationalist	pronators	prone	pronely	proneness	prong	pronged	pronghorn	pronghorns	pronging	prongs	pronominal	pronoun	pronounce	pronounceable	pronounced	pronouncedly	pronouncement	pronouncements	pronounces	pronouncing	pronouns	pronto	pronuclear	pronunciamento	pronunciamentos	pronunciation	pronunciations	proof	proofed	proofer	proofers	proofing	proofread	proofreader	proofreaders	proofreading	proofreads	proofs	prop	propaganda	propagandist	propagandistic	propagandists	propagandize	propagandized	propagandizes	propagandizing	propagate	propagated	propagates	propagating	propagation	propagational	propagative	propagator	propagators	propane	propanes	propanol	propel	propellant	propellants	propelled	propellent	propeller	propellers	propelling	propels	propended	propensities	propensity	proper	properer	properest	properitoneal	properly	properness	propers	propertied	properties	property	propertyless	prophase	prophases	prophecies	prophecy	prophesied	prophesier	prophesiers	prophesies	prophesy	prophesying	prophet	prophetess	prophetesses	prophetic	prophetical	prophetically	prophets	prophylactic	prophylactically	prophylactics	prophylaxis	propinquity	propitiate	propitiated	propitiates	propitiating	propitiation	propitiatory	propitious	propitiously	propjet	propjets	propman	propmen	propmistress	propmistresses	proponent	proponents	proponing	proportion	proportional	proportionality	proportionally	proportionate	proportionately	proportioned	proportioning	proportions	proposal	proposals	propose	proposed	proposer	proposers	proposes	proposing	proposition	propositional	propositions	propound	propounded	propounder	propounders	propounding	propounds	propped	propping	propranolol	proprietaries	proprietary	proprieties	proprietor	proprietorial	proprietors	proprietorship	proprietorships	proprietress	proprietresses	propriety	proprioception	proprioceptive	proprioceptor	props	propulsion	propulsive	propyl	propylene	prorate	prorated	prorater	prorates	prorating	proration	proreform	prorestoration	prorevolutionary	prorogation	prorogations	prorogue	prorogued	prorogues	proroguing	pros	prosaic	prosaically	prosaisms	prosaists	proscenia	proscenium	prosceniums	proscribe	proscribed	proscribes	proscribing	proscription	proscriptions	proscriptive	prose	prosecutable	prosecute	prosecuted	prosecutes	prosecuting	prosecution	prosecutions	prosecutive	prosecutor	prosecutorial	prosecutors	prosecutory	prosecutrices	prosecutrix	prosecutrixes	prosed	proselyte	proselyted	proselytes	proselyting	proselytism	proselytize	proselytized	proselytizer	proselytizers	proselytizes	proselytizing	prosequi	proser	prosers	proses	prosier	prosiest	prosily	prosing	prosit	proslavery	prosodic	prosodies	prosody	prospect	prospected	prospecting	prospective	prospectively	prospector	prospectors	prospects	prospectus	prospectuses	prosper	prospered	prospering	prosperity	prosperous	prosperously	prosperousness	prospers	prostaglandin	prostate	prostatectomies	prostatectomy	prostates	prostatic	prostatitis	prostheses	prosthesis	prosthetic	prosthetically	prosthetics	prosthetist	prosthodontia	prosthodontics	prosthodontist	prostitute	prostituted	prostitutes	prostituting	prostitution	prostrate	prostrated	prostrates	prostrating	prostration	prostrations	prostyle	prostyles	prosuffrage	prosy	protactinium	protagonist	protagonists	protea	protean	proteas	protect	protected	protecting	protection	protectional	protectionism	protectionist	protectionists	protective	protectively	protectiveness	protector	protectorate	protectorates	protectors	protectress	protectresses	protects	protege	protegee	protegees	proteges	protein	proteinaceous	proteins	protest	protestable	protestant	protestantism	protestants	protestation	protestations	protested	protester	protesters	protesting	protestor	protestors	protests	proteus	prothalamia	prothalamion	protist	protista	protists	protoactinium	protocol	protocols	proton	protonic	protons	protoplasm	protoplasmal	protoplasmatic	protoplasmic	prototype	prototypes	prototypic	prototypical	protozoa	protozoal	protozoan	protozoans	protozoic	protozoology	protozoon	protract	protracted	protractile	protracting	protraction	protractor	protractors	protracts	protrude	protruded	protrudes	protruding	protrusile	protrusion	protrusions	protrusive	protuberance	protuberances	protuberant	proud	prouder	proudest	proudly	proudness	prounion	provability	provable	provably	prove	proved	proven	provenance	provenances	provencal	provence	provender	provenly	prover	proverb	proverbed	proverbial	proverbing	proverbs	provers	proves	provide	provided	providence	provident	providential	providentially	providently	provider	providers	provides	providing	province	provinces	provincial	provincialism	provinciality	provincially	proving	provision	provisional	provisionally	provisions	proviso	provisoes	provisos	provocateur	provocateurs	provocation	provocations	provocative	provocatively	provocativeness	provoke	provoked	provoker	provokers	provokes	provoking	provokingly	provolone	provost	provosts	prow	prowar	prowess	prowesses	prowl	prowled	prowler	prowlers	prowling	prowls	prows	proxies	proxima	proximal	proximate	proximately	proximity	proximo	proxy	prs	prude	prudence	prudences	prudent	prudential	prudentially	prudently	pruderies	prudery	prudes	prudish	prudishly	prudishness	prunable	prune	pruned	pruner	pruners	prunes	pruning	prurience	prurient	pruriently	prussia	prussian	prussians	prussic	pry	pryer	pryers	prying	pryingly	prythee	psalm	psalmed	psalmic	psalming	psalmist	psalmists	psalmody	psalms	psalter	psalteries	psalters	psaltery	psaltries	psaltry	pschent	pschents	pseud	pseudo	pseudoaristocratic	pseudoartistic	pseudobiographical	pseudoclassic	pseudoclassical	pseudoclassicism	pseudoephedrine	pseudohistoric	pseudohistorical	pseudointellectual	pseudointellectuals	pseudolegendary	pseudoliberal	pseudoliterary	pseudomodern	pseudonym	pseudonymous	pseudonyms	pseudoparalyses	pseudoparalysis	pseudophilosophical	pseudopod	pseudopodia	pseudopodium	pseudoprofessional	pseudoscholarly	pseudoscientific	pseudoscientifically	psf	pshaw	pshawed	pshawing	pshaws	psi	psilocybin	psoriases	psoriasis	psst	psych	psyche	psyched	psychedelic	psychedelically	psychedelics	psyches	psychiatric	psychiatrical	psychiatrically	psychiatries	psychiatrist	psychiatrists	psychiatry	psychic	psychical	psychically	psychics	psyching	psycho	psychoactive	psychoanalyses	psychoanalysis	psychoanalyst	psychoanalysts	psychoanalytic	psychoanalytical	psychoanalytically	psychoanalyze	psychoanalyzed	psychoanalyzes	psychoanalyzing	psychobiology	psychodrama	psychodramas	psychodynamic	psychodynamics	psychogenic	psychogenically	psychokineses	psychokinesia	psychokinesis	psychol	psychologic	psychological	psychologically	psychologies	psychologism	psychologist	psychologists	psychologize	psychologized	psychologizing	psychology	psychometrics	psychometries	psychometry	psychomotor	psychoneuroses	psychoneurosis	psychoneurotic	psychopath	psychopathia	psychopathic	psychopathically	psychopathies	psychopathologic	psychopathological	psychopathologically	psychopathology	psychopaths	psychopathy	psychophysical	psychophysically	psychophysics	psychophysiology	psychoquackeries	psychos	psychosensory	psychoses	psychosexual	psychosexuality	psychosexually	psychosis	psychosocial	psychosocially	psychosomatic	psychosomatics	psychosyntheses	psychosynthesis	psychotherapies	psychotherapist	psychotherapists	psychotherapy	psychotic	psychotically	psychotics	psychotogen	psychotogenic	psychotomimetic	psychotoxic	psychotropic	psychrotherapies	psychs	ptarmigan	ptarmigans	pterodactyl	pterodactyls	ptolemaic	ptolemy	ptomain	ptomaine	ptomaines	ptomainic	pts	pub	pubertal	puberties	puberty	pubes	pubescence	pubescent	pubic	pubis	public	publican	publicans	publication	publications	publicist	publicists	publicity	publicize	publicized	publicizes	publicizing	publicly	publics	publish	publishable	published	publisher	publishers	publishes	publishing	pubs	puccini	puce	puces	puck	pucker	puckered	puckerer	puckerers	puckerier	puckering	puckers	puckery	puckish	pucks	pud	pudding	puddings	puddle	puddled	puddler	puddlers	puddles	puddlier	puddliest	puddling	puddlings	puddly	pudenda	pudendum	pudgier	pudgiest	pudgily	pudginess	pudgy	puds	pueblo	pueblos	puerile	puerilely	puerilities	puerility	puerperal	puerto	puff	puffball	puffballs	puffed	puffer	pufferies	puffers	puffery	puffier	puffiest	puffily	puffin	puffiness	puffing	puffins	puffs	puffy	pug	pugged	puggish	puggy	pugilism	pugilisms	pugilist	pugilistic	pugilists	pugnacious	pugnaciously	pugnaciousness	pugnacity	pugs	puissance	puissant	puissantly	puke	puked	pukes	puking	pukka	pulchritude	pulchritudinous	pule	puled	puler	pulers	pules	puling	pulingly	pulings	pulitzer	pull	pullback	pullbacks	pulldown	pulled	puller	pullers	pullet	pullets	pulley	pulleys	pulling	pullman	pullmans	pullout	pullouts	pullover	pullovers	pulls	pulmonary	pulmonectomies	pulmonic	pulmotor	pulmotors	pulp	pulped	pulper	pulpers	pulpier	pulpiest	pulpily	pulping	pulpit	pulpital	pulpits	pulps	pulpwood	pulpwoods	pulpy	pulque	pulques	pulsar	pulsars	pulsate	pulsated	pulsates	pulsating	pulsation	pulsations	pulsator	pulsators	pulsatory	pulse	pulsed	pulsejet	pulsejets	pulser	pulsers	pulses	pulsing	pulsions	pulverization	pulverize	pulverized	pulverizes	pulverizing	puma	pumas	pumice	pumiced	pumicer	pumicers	pumices	pumicing	pumicites	pummel	pummeled	pummeling	pummelled	pummelling	pummels	pump	pumped	pumper	pumpernickel	pumpers	pumping	pumpkin	pumpkins	pumps	pun	punch	punched	puncheon	puncheons	puncher	punchers	punches	punchier	punchiest	punching	punchy	punctilio	punctilios	punctilious	punctiliously	punctiliousness	punctual	punctuality	punctually	punctualness	punctuate	punctuated	punctuates	punctuating	punctuation	puncture	punctured	punctures	puncturing	pundit	punditic	punditry	pundits	pungencies	pungency	pungent	pungently	punier	puniest	punily	puniness	punish	punishability	punishable	punishably	punished	punisher	punishers	punishes	punishing	punishment	punishments	punitions	punitive	punitively	punk	punker	punkest	punkey	punkie	punkier	punkin	punkins	punks	punky	punned	punner	punners	punnier	punning	punny	puns	punster	punsters	punt	punted	punter	punters	punting	punts	punty	puny	pup	pupa	pupae	pupal	pupas	pupate	pupated	pupates	pupating	pupation	pupations	pupfish	pupfishes	pupil	pupilar	pupillary	pupillometries	pupils	pupped	puppet	puppeteer	puppeteers	puppetries	puppetry	puppets	puppies	pupping	puppy	puppydoms	puppyish	pups	purblind	purblindness	purchasable	purchase	purchaseable	purchased	purchaser	purchasers	purchases	purchasing	purdah	purdahs	purdas	pure	purebred	purebreds	puree	pureed	pureeing	purees	purely	pureness	purer	purest	purgation	purgations	purgative	purgatively	purgatives	purgatorial	purgatories	purgatory	purge	purged	purger	purgers	purges	purging	purgings	purification	purifications	purificatory	purified	purifier	purifiers	purifies	purify	purifying	purim	purine	purins	purism	purisms	purist	puristic	purists	puritan	puritanical	puritanically	puritanism	puritans	purities	purity	purl	purled	purlieu	purlieus	purling	purloin	purloined	purloiner	purloiners	purloining	purloins	purls	purple	purpled	purpler	purples	purplest	purpling	purplish	purply	purport	purported	purportedly	purporting	purports	purpose	purposed	purposeful	purposefully	purposefulness	purposeless	purposelessly	purposelessness	purposely	purposes	purposing	purposive	purpresture	purr	purred	purring	purrs	purse	pursed	purser	pursers	purses	pursier	pursily	pursing	purslane	purslanes	pursuable	pursuance	pursuant	pursue	pursued	pursuer	pursuers	pursues	pursuing	pursuit	pursuits	pursy	purulence	purulences	purulencies	purulency	purulent	purulently	puruloid	purvey	purveyance	purveyed	purveying	purveyor	purveyors	purveys	purview	purviews	pus	push	pushcart	pushcarts	pushed	pusher	pushers	pushes	pushier	pushiest	pushily	pushiness	pushing	pushover	pushovers	pushpin	pushpins	pushup	pushups	pushy	pusillanimity	pusillanimous	pusillanimously	puslike	puss	pusses	pussier	pussies	pussiest	pussy	pussycat	pussycats	pussyfoot	pussyfooted	pussyfooting	pussyfoots	pustular	pustulating	pustulation	pustule	pustuled	pustules	pustuliform	put	putative	putatively	putdown	putdowns	putoff	putoffs	puton	putons	putout	putouts	putrefaction	putrefactive	putrefied	putrefies	putrefy	putrefying	putrescence	putrescent	putrid	putridity	putridly	putridness	puts	putsch	putsches	putt	putted	puttee	puttees	putter	puttered	putterer	putterers	puttering	putters	puttied	puttier	puttiers	putties	putting	putts	putty	puttying	puzzle	puzzled	puzzlement	puzzler	puzzlers	puzzles	puzzling	puzzlingly	pygmalionism	pygmies	pygmoid	pygmy	pygmyish	pygmyism	pygmyisms	pyjamas	pylon	pylons	pylori	pyloric	pylorous	pylorouses	pylorus	pyloruses	pyongyang	pyorrhea	pyorrheas	pyorrhoea	pyramid	pyramidal	pyramided	pyramiding	pyramids	pyre	pyrenees	pyrenes	pyres	pyrethrin	pyrethrum	pyrex	pyric	pyrimidine	pyrite	pyrites	pyritic	pyrogen	pyrolysis	pyromania	pyromaniac	pyromaniacal	pyromaniacs	pyrometer	pyrometers	pyrostats	pyrotechnic	pyrotechnical	pyrotechnics	pyrrhic	pyruvic	pythagoras	pythagorean	pythagoreans	python	pythons	pyx	pyxes	pyxie	pyxies	pyxis	qaid	qaids	qatar	qed	qiana	qindars	qintars	qoph	qophs	qts	qty	qua	quaalude	quaaludes	quack	quacked	quackeries	quackery	quackier	quackiest	quacking	quackish	quackishly	quackishness	quackism	quackisms	quacks	quacksalver	quackster	quacky	quad	quadded	quadrangle	quadrangles	quadrangular	quadrant	quadrantal	quadrants	quadraphonic	quadrat	quadrate	quadrated	quadrates	quadratic	quadratics	quadrennial	quadrennials	quadrennium	quadrenniums	quadric	quadricentennial	quadricentennials	quadriceps	quadrics	quadriennium	quadrigamist	quadrilateral	quadrilaterals	quadrille	quadrilles	quadrillion	quadrillions	quadrillionth	quadrillionths	quadripartite	quadriplegia	quadriplegic	quadrivium	quadroon	quadroons	quadrumvirate	quadruped	quadrupedal	quadrupeds	quadruple	quadrupled	quadruples	quadruplet	quadruplets	quadruplicate	quadruplicated	quadruplicates	quadruplicating	quadruplication	quadruplications	quadrupling	quads	quae	quaestor	quaff	quaffed	quaffer	quaffers	quaffing	quaffs	quag	quagga	quaggas	quaggier	quaggiest	quaggy	quagmire	quagmires	quagmiry	quags	quahaug	quahaugs	quahog	quahogs	quai	quail	quailed	quailing	quails	quaint	quainter	quaintest	quaintly	quaintness	quais	quake	quaked	quaker	quakerism	quakers	quakes	quakier	quakiest	quakily	quaking	quakingly	quaky	qual	quale	qualification	qualifications	qualified	qualifiedly	qualifier	qualifiers	qualifies	qualify	qualifying	qualitative	qualitatively	qualities	quality	qualm	qualmier	qualmiest	qualmish	qualmishly	qualmishness	qualms	qualmy	quam	quandaries	quandary	quando	quant	quanta	quantal	quanted	quanti	quantic	quantified	quantifies	quantify	quantifying	quantimeter	quantitative	quantitatively	quantities	quantity	quantize	quantized	quantizes	quantizing	quants	quantum	quarantinable	quarantine	quarantined	quarantines	quarantining	quark	quarks	quarrel	quarreled	quarreler	quarrelers	quarreling	quarrelled	quarreller	quarrellers	quarrelling	quarrels	quarrelsome	quarried	quarrier	quarriers	quarries	quarry	quarrying	quarrymen	quart	quartan	quarte	quarter	quarterback	quarterbacks	quarterdeck	quarterdecks	quartered	quarterfinal	quarterfinalist	quartering	quarterings	quarterlies	quarterly	quartermaster	quartermasters	quarters	quarterstaff	quarterstaves	quartes	quartet	quartets	quartic	quartics	quartile	quartiles	quarto	quartos	quarts	quartz	quartzes	quartzite	quasar	quasars	quash	quashed	quashes	quashing	quasi	quat	quaternary	quatorze	quatorzes	quatrain	quatrains	quatre	quatrefoil	quatrefoils	quatres	quaver	quavered	quaverer	quaverers	quavering	quaveringly	quavers	quavery	quay	quayage	quayages	quays	quayside	quaysides	que	quean	queans	queasier	queasiest	queasily	queasiness	queasy	queaziest	queazy	quebec	queen	queened	queening	queenlier	queenliest	queenliness	queenly	queens	queer	queered	queerer	queerest	queering	queerish	queerly	queerness	queers	quell	quelled	queller	quellers	quelling	quells	quem	quench	quenchable	quenched	quencher	quenchers	quenches	quenching	quenchless	queried	querier	queriers	queries	querist	querists	quern	querns	querulous	querulously	querulousness	query	querying	ques	quest	quested	quester	questers	questing	question	questionability	questionable	questionableness	questionably	questioned	questioner	questioners	questioning	questionnaire	questionnaires	questions	questor	questors	quests	quetzal	quetzales	quetzals	queue	queued	queueing	queuer	queuers	queues	queuing	quey	queys	quezal	quezals	qui	quia	quibble	quibbled	quibbler	quibblers	quibbles	quibbling	quiche	quiches	quick	quicken	quickened	quickening	quickens	quicker	quickest	quickie	quickies	quicklime	quickly	quickness	quicks	quicksand	quicksets	quicksilver	quickstep	quicksteps	quid	quiddities	quiddity	quidnunc	quids	quiescence	quiescency	quiescent	quiet	quieta	quieted	quieten	quietened	quietening	quietens	quieter	quieters	quietest	quieti	quieting	quietism	quietisms	quietist	quietists	quietly	quietness	quiets	quietude	quietudes	quietus	quietuses	quill	quilled	quills	quilt	quilted	quilter	quilters	quilting	quiltings	quilts	quince	quinces	quincunx	quincunxes	quinic	quinin	quinine	quinines	quinins	quinols	quinone	quinquina	quinsies	quinsy	quint	quintain	quintains	quintal	quintals	quintan	quintar	quintessence	quintessential	quintet	quintets	quintette	quintic	quintics	quintile	quintiles	quintillion	quintillions	quintillionth	quintillionths	quintin	quints	quintuple	quintupled	quintuples	quintuplet	quintuplets	quintuplicate	quintuplicated	quintuplicates	quintuplicating	quintupling	quip	quipped	quipping	quippish	quips	quipster	quipsters	quipu	quipus	quire	quired	quires	quiring	quirk	quirked	quirkier	quirkiest	quirkily	quirkiness	quirking	quirks	quirky	quirt	quirted	quirts	quisling	quislings	quit	quitclaim	quitclaimed	quitclaiming	quitclaims	quite	quito

WordCount in Detail
This section describes each Pig Latin statement in the wordcount.pig
script.
The first statement loads data from the filesystem and stores it in the
relation records:
records = LOAD '/user/hduser/input/input.txt'
The second statement splits each line of text using the TOKENIZE
function and eliminates nesting using the FLATTEN operator:
terms = FOREACH records GENERATE FLATTEN(TOKENIZE((chararray)
$0)) AS word
The third statement uses the GROUP operator to group the tuples that
have the same field:
grouped_terms = GROUP terms BY word
The fourth statement iterates over all of the terms in each bag and
uses the COUNT function to return the sum:
word_counts = FOREACH grouped_terms GENERATE COUNT(terms)
group
The fifth and final statement stores the results in HDFS:
STORE word_counts INTO '/user/hduser/output/pig_wordcount'
Running Pig
Pig contains multiple modes that can be specified to configure how
Pig scripts and Pig statements will be executed.
Execution Modes
Pig has two execution modes: local and MapReduce.
Running Pig | 29Running Pig in local mode only requires a single machine. Pig will
run on the local host and access the local filesystem. To run Pig in
local mode use the -x local flag:
$ pig -x local ...
Running Pig in MapReduce mode requires access to a Hadoop clus-
ter. MapReduce mode executes Pig statements and jobs on the clus-
ter and accesses HDFS. To run Pig in MapReduce mode simply call
Pig from the command line or use the -x mapreduce flag:
$ pig ...
or
$ pig -x mapreduce ...
Interactive Mode
Pig can be run interactively in the Grunt shell. To invoke the Grunt
shell simply call Pig from the command line and specify the desired
execution mode. The following example starts the Grunt shell in
local mode:
pig -x local
...
grunt>
Once the Grunt shell is initialized Pig Latin statements can be
entered and executed in an interactive manner. Running Pig interac-
tively is a great way to learn Pig.
Batch Mode
Batch mode allows Pig to execute Pig scripts in local or MapReduce
mode.
The Pig Latin statements in Example 3-3 read a file named passwd
and use the STORE operator to store the results in a directory called
user_id.out. Before executing this script ensure that /etc/passwd is
copied to the current working directory if Pig will be run in local
mode or to HDFS if Pig will be executed in MapReduce mode.
30 | Chapter 3: Pig and Python
Example 3-3. pig/user_id.pig
A = LOAD 'passwd' using PigStorage(':')
B = FOREACH A GENERATE $0 as username
STORE B INTO 'user_id.out'
Use the following command to execute the user_id.pig script on the
local machine:
$ pig -x local user_id.pig
Pig Latin
This section describes the basic concepts of the Pig Latin language
allowing those new to the language to understand and write basic
Pig scripts. For a more comprehensive overview of the language
visit the Pig online documentation.
All of the examples in this section load and process data from the
tab-delimited file resources/students (Example 3-4).
Example 3-4. resources/students
john 21 3.89
sally 19 2.56
alice 22 3.76
doug 19 1.98
susan 26 3.25
Statements
Statements are the basic constructs used to process data in Pig. Each
statement is an operator that takes a relation as an input performs a
transformation on that relation and produces a relation as an out-
put. Statements can span multiple lines but all statements must end
with a semicolon ().
The general form of each Pig script is as follows:
1. A LOAD statement that reads the data from the filesystem
2. One or more statements to transform the data
3. A DUMP or STORE statement to view or store the results respec-
tively
Pig Latin | 31
Loading Data
The LOAD operator is used to load data from the system into Pig. The
format of the LOAD operator is as follows:
LOAD 'data' [USING function] [AS schema]
Where 'data' is the name of the file or directory in quotes to be
loaded. If a directory name is not specified all of the files within the
directory are loaded.
The USING keyword is optional and is used to specify a function to
parse the incoming data. If the USING keyword is omitted the
default loading function PigStorage is used. The default delimiter is
the tab character ('\t').
The AS keyword allows a schema to be defined for the data being
loaded. Schemas enable names and datatypes to be declared for indi-
vidual fields. The following example defines a schema for the data
being loaded from the file input.txt. If no schema is defined the
fields are not named and default to type bytearray
The treatment and analyses of data in a live or streaming context seem to be the defning
characteristic of application-oriented analyses unlike more traditional data mining or
statistical evaluations of a static dataset. In order to deal with such data a fair amount of
programmatic nimbleness or dynamic approaches are required and exibility is precisely
where Python shines in the data science context.
Consider a specifc example for a reporting task. Taking a snapshot of a data window and
manually compiling a report from gathered analytics with charting graphics and visualizations
is good practice to understand changing data and get a feel for larger patterns. When this
report needs to be run daily on lower data volumes schedulers could merely dump the report
out to a fle every day. However when the reporting task becomes hourly or on demand it
means the visualization application has become a static web application and will probably
require a central location. As this task and the data size grow adding constraints or queries
on the report becomes important. This is a typical life cycle for data applications and Python
development is well suited to handle these changing requirements.
In this chapter we will repeat the task of one of the frst chapters in R to perform analyses of
a dataset to discover interesting trends and features. We will describe model and visualize
a dataset that contains the world's top incomes and discuss the statistical toolkit in Python.
However as we go through this chapter we will also include notes on how the analyses and
methodologies we are utilizing can be framed in an application-oriented context.
Ian H. Witten is a professor of computer science at the University
of Waikato in New Zealand. He is a fellow of the Association for Computing
Machinery and the Royal Society of New Zealand. He received the 2004 IFIP
Namur Award a biennial honor accorded for outstanding contribution with
international impact to the awareness of social implications of information and
communication technology. His books include Managing gigabytes (1999) and
How to build a digital library (2003) and he has written many journal articles
and conference papers.
Eibe Frank is a senior lecturer in computer science at the University of Waikato.
He has published extensively in the area of machine learning and sits on the editorial boards of the Machine Learning Journal and the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. He has also served on the programming committees of many
data mining and machine learning conferences. As one of the core developers
of the Weka machine learning software that accompanies this book he enjoys
maintaining and improving it.
The entropy-based method with the MDL stopping criterion is one of the best
general techniques for supervised discretization. However many other methods
have been investigated. For example instead of proceeding top-down by recursively splitting intervals until some stopping criterion is satisfied you could
work bottom-up first placing each instance into its own interval and then considering whether to merge adjacent intervals. You could apply a statistical criterion to see which would be the best two intervals to merge and merge them if
the statistic exceeds a certain preset confidence level repeating the operation
until no potential merge passes the test. The c2 test is a suitable one and has
been used for this purpose. Instead of specifying a preset significance threshold
more complex techniques are available to determine an appropriate level
automatically.
A rather different approach is to count the number of errors that a discretization makes when predicting each training instances class assuming that
each interval receives the majority class. For example the 1R method described
earlier is error basedit focuses on errors rather than the entropy. However
the best possible discretization in terms of error count is obtained by using the
largest possible number of intervals and this degenerate case should be avoided
by restricting the number of intervals in advance. For example you might ask
what is the best way to discretize an attribute into k intervals in a way that minimizes the number of errors
The brute-force method of finding the best way of partitioning an attribute
into k intervals in a way that minimizes the error count is exponential in k and
hence infeasible. However there are much more efficient schemes that are based
on the idea of dynamic programming. Dynamic programming applies not just
to the error count measure but also to any given additive impurity function and
it can find the partitioning of N instances into k intervals in a way that minimizes the impurity in time proportional to. This gives a way of finding the
best entropy-based discretization yielding a potential improvement in the
quality of the discretization (but in practice a negligible one) over the recursive
entropy-based method described previously. The news for error-based discretization is even better because there is a method that minimizes the error
count in time linear in N. discretization: it cannot produce adjacent intervals with the same label (such as
the first two of Figure 7.3). The reason is that merging two such intervals will
not affect the error count but it will free up an interval that can be used elsewhere to reduce the error count.
Why would anyone want to generate adjacent intervals with the same label
The reason is best illustrated with an example. Figure 7.4 shows the instance
space for a simple two-class problem with two numeric attributes ranging from
0 to 1. Instances belong to one class (the dots) if their first attribute (a1) is less
than 0.3 or if it is less than 0.7 and their second attribute (a2) is less than 0.5.
Otherwise they belong to the other class (triangles). The data in Figure 7.4 has
been artificially generated according to this rule.
Now suppose we are trying to discretize both attributes with a view to learning the classes from the discretized attributes. The very best discretization splits
a1 into three intervals (0 through 0.3 0.3 through 0.7 and 0.7 through 1.0) and
a2 into two intervals (0 through 0.5 and 0.5 through 1.0). Given these nominal attributes it will be easy to learn how to tell the classes apart with a simple decision tree or rule algorithm. Discretizing a2 is no problem. For a1 however the
first and last intervals will have opposite labels (dot and triangle respectively).
The second will have whichever label happens to occur most in the region from
0.3 through 0.7 (it is in fact dot for the data in Figure 7.4). Either way this label
must inevitably be the same as one of the adjacent labelsof course this is true
whatever the class probability happens to be in the middle region. Thus this discretization will not be achieved by any method that minimizes the error counts
because such a method cannot produce adjacent intervals with the same label.
The point is that what changes as the value of a1 crosses the boundary at 0.3
is not the majority class but the class distribution. The majority class remains
dot. The distribution however changes markedly from 100% before the boundary to just over 50% after it. And the distribution changes again as the boundary at 0.7 is crossed from 50% to 0%. Entropy-based discretization methods
are sensitive to changes in the distribution even though the majority class does
not change. Error-based methods are not.
Converting discrete to numeric attributes
There is a converse problem to discretization. Some learning algorithms
notably the nearest-neighbor instance-based method and numeric prediction
techniques involving regressionnaturally handle only attributes that are
numeric. How can they be extended to nominal attributes
In instance-based learning as described in Section 4.7 discrete attributes can
be treated as numeric by defining the distance between two nominal values
that are the same as 0 and between two values that are different as 1regardless of the actual values involved. Rather than modifying the distance function
this can be achieved using an attribute transformation: replace a k-valued
nominal attribute with k synthetic binary attributes one for each value indicating whether the attribute has that value or not. If the attributes have equal
weight this achieves the same effect on the distance function. The distance is
insensitive to the attribute values because only same or different information is encoded not the shades of difference that may be associated with the
various possible values of the attribute. More subtle distinctions can be made if
the attributes have weights reflecting their relative importance.
If the values of the attribute can be ordered more possibilities arise. For a
numeric prediction problem the average class value corresponding to each
value of a nominal attribute can be calculated from the training instances and
used to determine an orderingthis technique was introduced for model
trees in Section 6.5. (It is hard to come up with an analogous way of ordering
attribute values for a classification problem.) An ordered nominal attribute
can be replaced with an integer in the obvious waybut this implies not just Resourceful data miners have a toolbox full of techniques such as discretization for transforming data. As we emphasized in Section 2.4 data mining is
hardly ever a matter of simply taking a dataset and applying a learning algorithm to it. Every problem is different. You need to think about the data and
what it means and examine it from diverse points of viewcreatively!to
arrive at a suitable perspective. Transforming it in different ways can help you
get started.
You dont have to make your own toolbox by implementing the techniques
yourself. Comprehensive environments for data mining such as the one
described in Part II of this book contain a wide range of suitable tools for you
to use. You do not necessarily need a detailed understanding of how they are
implemented. What you do need is to understand what the tools do and how
they can be applied. In Part II we list and briefly describe all the transformations in the Weka data mining workbench.
Data often calls for general mathematical transformations of a set of attributes. It might be useful to define new attributes by applying specified mathematical functions to existing ones. Two date attributes might be subtracted to
give a third attribute representing agean example of a semantic transformation driven by the meaning of the original attributes. Other transformations
might be suggested by known properties of the learning algorithm. If a linear
relationship involving two attributes A and B is suspected and the algorithm
is only capable of axis-parallel splits (as most decision tree and rule learners
are) the ratio A/B might be defined as a new attribute. The transformations are
not necessarily mathematical ones but may involve world knowledge such as
days of the week civic holidays or chemical atomic numbers. They could be
expressed as operations in a spreadsheet or as functions that are implemented
by arbitrary computer programs. Or you can reduce several nominal attributes
to one by concatenating their values producing a single k1  k2-valued attribute from attributes with k1 and k2 values respectively. Discretization converts a
numeric attribute to nominal and we saw earlier how to convert in the other
direction too.
As another kind of transformation you might apply a clustering procedure
to the dataset and then define a new attribute whose value for any given instance
is the cluster that contains it using an arbitrary labeling for clusters. Alternatively with probabilistic clustering you could augment each instance with its
membership probabilities for each cluster including as many new attributes as
there are clusters.
Sometimes it is useful to add noise to data perhaps to test the robustness of
a learning algorithm. To take a nominal attribute and change a given percentage of its values. To obfuscate data by renaming the relation attribute names
and nominal and string attribute valuesbecause it is often necessary to
anonymize sensitive datasets. To randomize the order of instances or produce a
random sample of the dataset by resampling it. To reduce a dataset by removing a given percentage of instances or all instances that have certain values for
nominal attributes or numeric values above or below a certain threshold. Or to
remove outliers by applying a classification method to the dataset and deleting
misclassified instances.
Different types of input call for their own transformations. If you can input
sparse data files (see Section 2.4) you may need to be able to convert datasets
to a nonsparse form and vice versa. Textual input and time series input call for
their own specialized conversions described in the subsections that follow. But
first we look at two general techniques for transforming data with numeric
attributes into a lower-dimensional form that may be more useful for data
mining.
Principal components analysis
In a dataset with k numeric attributes you can visualize the data as a cloud of
points in k-dimensional spacethe stars in the sky a swarm of flies frozen in
time a two-dimensional scatter plot on paper. The attributes represent the coordinates of the space. But the axes you use the coordinate system itself is arbitrary. You can place horizontal and vertical axes on the paper and represent the
points of the scatter plot using those coordinates or you could draw an arbitrary straight line to represent the X-axis and one perpendicular to it to represent Y. To record the positions of the flies you could use a conventional
coordinate system with a northsouth axis an eastwest axis and an updown
axis. But other coordinate systems would do equally well. Creatures such as flies
dont know about north south east and westalthough being subject to
gravity they may perceive updown as being something special. As for the stars
in the sky whos to say what the right coordinate system is Over the centuries
our ancestors moved from a geocentric perspective to a heliocentric one to a
purely relativistic one each shift of perspective being accompanied by turbulent religiousscientific upheavals and painful reexamination of humankinds
role in Gods universe.
Back to the dataset. Just as in these examples there is nothing to stop you
transforming all the data points into a different coordinate system. But unlike
these examples in data mining there often is a preferred coordinate system
defined not by some external convention but by the very data itself. Whatever
coordinates you use the cloud of points has a certain variance in each direction indicating the degree of spread around the mean value in that direction.
It is a curious fact that if you add up the variances along each axis and then
transform the points into a different coordinate system and do the same there
you get the same total variance in both cases. This is always true provided that
the coordinate systems are orthogonal that is each axis is at right angles to the
others.
The idea of principal components analysis is to use a special coordinate
system that depends on the cloud of points as follows: place the first axis in the
direction of greatest variance of the points to maximize the variance along that
axis. The second axis is perpendicular to it. In two dimensions there is no
choiceits direction is determined by the first axisbut in three dimensions
it can lie anywhere in the plane perpendicular to the first axis and in higher
dimensions there is even more choice although it is always constrained to be
perpendicular to the first axis. Subject to this constraint choose the second axis
in the way that maximizes the variance along it. Continue choosing each axis
to maximize its share of the remaining variance.
How do you do this Its not hard given an approand its not hard to understand given the appropriate mathematical tools. Technicallyfor those who understand the italicized termsyou calculate the
covariance matrix of the original coordinates of the points and diagonalize it to
find the eigenvectors. These are the axes of the transformed space sorted in order
of eigenvaluebecause each eigenvalue gives the variance along its axis.
Figure 7.5 shows the result of transforming a particular dataset with 10
numeric attributes corresponding to points in 10-dimensional space. Imagine
the original dataset as a cloud of points in 10 dimensionswe cant draw it!
Choose the first axis along the direction of greatest variance the second perpendicular to it along the direction of next greatest variance and so on. The
table gives the variance along each new coordinate axis in the order in which
the axes were chosen. Because the sum of the variances is constant regardless of
the coordinate system they are expressed as percentages of that total. We call
axes components and say that each one accounts for its share of the variance.
Figure 7.5(b) plots the variance that each component accounts for against the
components number. You can use all the components as new attributes for data
mining or you might want to choose just the first few the principal components outcome of principal components analysis and it is common practice to standardize all attributes to zero mean and unit variance first.
Another possibility is to apply principal components analysis recursively in
a decision tree learner. At each stage an ordinary decision tree learner chooses
to split in a direction that is parallel to one of the axes. However suppose a principal components transform is performed first and the learner chooses an axis
in the transformed space. This equates to a split along an oblique line in the
original space. If the transform is performed afresh before each split the result
will be a multivariate decision tree whose splits are in directions that are not
parallel with the axes or with one another.
Random projections
Principal components analysis transforms the data linearly into a lowerdimensional space. But its expensive. The time taken to find the transformation (which is a matrix comprising the eigenvectors of the covariance
matrix) is cubic in the number of dimensions. This makes it infeasible for
datasets with a large number of attributes. A far simpler alternative is to use a
random projection of the data into a subspace with a predetermined number
of dimensions. Its very easy to find a random projection matrix. But will it be
any good
In fact theory shows that random projections preserve distance relationships
quite well on average. This means that they could be used in conjunction with
trees or ball trees to do approximate nearest-neighbor search in spaces with
a huge number of dimensions. First transform the data to reduce the number
of attributes then build a tree for the transformed space. In the case of nearest neighbor classification you could make the result more stable and less dependent on the choice of random projection by building an ensemble classifier that
uses multiple random matrices.
Not surprisingly random projections perform worse than ones carefully
chosen by principal components analysis when used to preprocess data for a
range of standard classifiers. However experimental results have shown that the
difference is not too greatand that it tends to decrease as the number of
dimensions increase. And of course random projections are far cheaper
computationally.
Text to attribute vectors
In Section 2.4 we introduced string attributes that contain pieces of text and
remarked that the value of a string attribute is often an entire document. String
attributes are basically nominal with an unspecified number of values. If they
are treated simply as nominal attributes models can be built that depend on
whether the values of two string attributes are equal or not. But that does not capture any internal structure of the string or bring out any interesting aspects
of the text it represents.
You could imagine decomposing the text in a string attribute into paragraphs
sentences or phrases. Generally however the word is the most useful unit. The
text in a string attribute is usually a sequence of words and is often best represented in terms of the words it contains. For example you might transform the
string attribute into a set of numeric attributes one for each word that represent how often the word appears. The set of wordsthat is the set of new attributesis determined from the dataset and is typically quite large. If there are
several string attributes whose properties should be treated separately the new
attribute names must be distinguished perhaps by a user-determined prefix.
Conversion into wordstokenizationis not such a simple operation as it
sounds. Tokens may be formed from contiguous alphabetic sequences with nonalphabetic characters discarded. If numbers are present numeric sequences may
be retained too. Numbers may involve + or - signs may contain decimal points
and may have exponential notationin other words they must be parsed
according to a defined number syntax. An alphanumeric sequence may be
regarded as a single token. Perhaps the space character is the token delimiter
perhaps white space (including the tab and new-line characters) is the delimiter and perhaps punctuation is too. Periods can be difficult: sometimes they
should be considered part of the word (e.g. with initials titles abbreviations
and numbers) but sometimes they should not (e.g. if they are sentence delimiters). Hyphens and apostrophes are similarly problematic.
All words may be converted to lowercase before being added to the dictionary. Words on a fixed predetermined list of function words or stopwordssuch
as the and and butcould be ignored. Note that stopword lists are language
dependent. In fact so are capitalization conventions (German capitalizes all
nouns) number syntax (Europeans use the comma for a decimal point) punctuation conventions (Spanish has an initial question mark) and of course character sets. Text is complicated!
Low-frequency words such as hapax legomena3 are often discarded too.
Sometimes it is found beneficial to keep the most frequent k words after stopwords have been removedor perhaps the top k words for each class.
Along with all these tokenization options there is also the question of
what the value of each word attribute should be. The value may be the word
countthe number of times the word appears in the stringor it may simply
indicate the words presence or absence. Word frequencies could be normalized to
give each documents attribute vector the same Euclidean length. Alternatively Time series
In time series data each instance represents a different time step and the attributes give values associated with that timesuch as in weather forecasting
or stock market prediction. You sometimes need to be able to replace an
attributes value in the current instance with the corresponding value in
some other instance in the past or the future. It is even more common to replace
an attributes value with the difference between the current value and the
value in some previous instance. For example the differenceoften called the
Deltabetween the current value and the preceding one is often more
informative than the value itself. The first instance in which the time-shifted
value is unknown may be removed or replaced with a missing value. The Delta
value is essentially the first derivative scaled by some constant that depends
on the size of the time step. Successive Delta transformations take higher
derivatives.
In some time series instances do not represent regular samples but the time
of each instance is given by a timestamp attribute. The difference between timestamps is the step size for that instance and if successive differences are taken
for other attributes they should be divided by the step size to normalize the
derivative. In other cases each attribute may represent a different time rather
than each instance so that the time series is from one attribute to the next rather
than from one instance to the next. Then if differences are needed they must
be taken between one attributes value and the next attributes value for each
instance Improving decision trees
It is a surprising fact that decision trees induced from training data can often
be simplified without loss of accuracy by discarding misclassified instances
from the training set relearning and then repeating until there are no misclassified instances. Experiments on standard datasets have shown that this hardly
affects the classification accuracy of C4.5 a standard decision tree induction
scheme. In some cases it improves slightly in others it deteriorates slightly. The
difference is rarely statistically significantand even when it is the advantage
can go either way. What the technique does affect is decision tree size. The resulting trees are invariably much smaller than the original ones even though they
perform about the same.
What is the reason for this When a decision tree induction method prunes
away a subtree it applies a statistical test that decides whether that subtree is
justified by the data. The decision to prune accepts a small sacrifice in classification accuracy on the training set in the belief that this will improve test-set
performance. Some training instances that were classified correctly by the
unpruned tree will now be misclassified by the pruned one. In effect the decision has been taken to ignore these training instances.
But that decision has only been applied locally in the pruned subtree. Its
effect has not been allowed to percolate further up the tree perhaps resulting
in different choices being made of attributes to branch on. Removing the misclassified instances from the training set and relearning the decision tree is just
taking the pruning decisions to their logical conclusion. If the pruning strategy
is a good one this should not harm performance. It may even improve it by
allowing better attribute choices to be made.
It would no doubt be even better to consult a human expert. Misclassified
training instances could be presented for verification and those that were found
to be wrong could be deletedor better still corrected.
Notice that we are assuming that the instances are not misclassified in any
systematic way. If instances are systematically corrupted in both training and
test setsfor example one class value might be substituted for anotherit is
only to be expected that training on the erroneous training set would yield better
performance on the (also erroneous) test set. Interestingly enough it has been shown that when artificial noise is added to
attributes (rather than to classes) test-set performance is improved if the same
noise is added in the same way to the training set. In other words when attribute noise is the problem it is not a good idea to train on a clean set if performance is to be assessed on a dirty one. A learning method can learn to
compensate for attribute noise in some measure if given a chance. In essence
it can learn which attributes are unreliable and if they are all unreliable how
best to use them together to yield a more reliable result. To remove noise from
attributes for the training set denies the opportunity to learn how best to combat
that noise. But with class noise (rather than attribute noise) it is best to train
on noise-free instances if possible. Robust regression
The problems caused by noisy data have been known in linear regression for
years. Statisticians often check data for outliers and remove them manually. In
the case of linear regression outliers can be identified visuallyalthough it is
never completely clear whether an outlier is an error or just a surprising but
correct value. Outliers dramatically affect the usual least-squares regression
because the squared distance measure accentuates the influence of points far
away from the regression line.
Statistical methods that address the problem of outliers are called robust. One
way of making regression more robust is to use an absolute-value distance
measure instead of the usual squared one. This weakens the effect of outliers.
Another possibility is to try to identify outliers automatically and remove them
from consideration. For example one could form a regression line and then
remove from consideration those 10% of points that lie furthest from the line.
A third possibility is to minimize the median (rather than the mean) of the
squares of the divergences from the regression line. It turns out that this estimator is very robust and actually copes with outliers in the X-direction as
well as outliers in the Y-directionwhich is the normal direction one thinks of
outliers.
A dataset that is often used to illustrate robust regression is the graph of international telephone calls made from Belgium from 1950 to 1973 shown in Figure
7.6. This data is taken from the Belgian Statistical Survey published by the Ministry of Economy. The plot seems to show an upward trend over the years but
there is an anomalous group of points from 1964 to 1969. It turns out that
during this period results were mistakenly recorded in the total number of
minutes of the calls. The years 1963 and 1970 are also partially affected. This
error causes a large fraction of outliers in the Y-direction.
Not surprisingly the usual least-squares regression line is seriously affected
by this anomalous data. However the least median of squares line remains remarkably unperturbed. This line has a simple and natural interpretation. Geometrically it corresponds to finding the narrowest strip covering half of the
observations where the thickness of the strip is measured in the vertical directionthis strip is marked gray in Figure 7.6 you need to look closely to see it.
The least median of squares line lies at the exact center of this band. Note that
this notion is often easier to explain and visualize than the normal least-squares
definition of regression. Unfortunately there is a serious disadvantage to
median-based regression techniques: they incur a high computational cost
which often makes them infeasible for practical problems.
Detecting anomalies
A serious problem with any form of automatic detection of apparently incorrect data is that the baby may be thrown out with the bathwater. Short of consulting a human expert there is really no way of telling whether a particular
instance really is an error or whether it just does not fit the type of model that
is being applied. In statistical regression visualizations help. It will usually be
visually apparent even to the nonexpert if the wrong kind of curve is being
fitteda straight line is being fitted to data that lies on a parabola for example.
The outliers in Figure 7.6 certainly stand out to the eye. But most problems
cannot be so easily visualized: the notion of model type is more subtle than a
regression line. And although it is known that good results are obtained on most
standard datasets by discarding instances that do not fit a decision tree model
this is not necessarily of great comfort when dealing with a particular new dataset. The suspicion will remain that perhaps the new dataset is simply
unsuited to decision tree modeling.
One solution that has been tried is to use several different learning schemes
such as a decision tree and a nearest-neighbor learner and a linear discriminant functionto filter the data. A conservative approach is to ask that all three
schemes fail to classify an instance correctly before it is deemed erroneous and
removed from the data. In some cases filtering the data in this way and using
the filtered data as input to a final learning scheme gives better performance
than simply using the three learning schemes and letting them vote on the
outcome. Training all three schemes on the filtered data and letting them vote
can yield even better results. However there is a danger to voting techniques:
some learning algorithms are better suited to certain types of data than others
and the most appropriate method may simply get out-voted! We will examine
a more subtle method of combining the output from different classifiers called
stacking in the next section. The lesson as usual is to get to know your data
and look at it in many different ways.
One possible danger with filtering approaches is that they might conceivably just be sacrificing instances of a particular class (or group of classes)
to improve accuracy on the remaining classes. Although there are no general
ways to guard against this it has not been found to be a common problem in
practice.
Finally it is worth noting once again that automatic filtering is a poor substitute for getting the data right in the first place. If this is too time consuming
and expensive to be practical human inspection could be limited to those
instances that are identified by the filter as suspect. When wise people make critical decisions they usually take into account the
opinions of several experts rather than relying on their own judgment or that
of a solitary trusted adviser. For example before choosing an important new
policy direction a benign dictator consults widely: he or she would be ill advised
to follow just one experts opinion blindly. In a democratic setting discussion
of different viewpoints may produce a consensus if not a vote may be called
for. In either case different expert opinions are being combined.
In data mining a model generated by machine learning can be regarded as
an expert. Expert is probably too strong a word!depending on the amount
and quality of the training data and whether the learning algorithm is appropriate to the problem at hand the expert may in truth be regrettably ignorant
but we use the term nevertheless. An obvious approach to making decisions
more reliable is to combine the output of different models. Several machine learning techniques do this by learning an ensemble of models and using them
in combination: prominent among these are schemes called bagging boosting
and stacking. They can all more often than not increase predictive performance
over a single model. And they are general techniques that can be applied to
numeric prediction problems and to classification tasks.
Bagging boosting and stacking have only been developed over the past
decade and their performance is often astonishingly good. Machine learning
researchers have struggled to understand why. And during that struggle new
methods have emerged that are sometimes even better. For example whereas
human committees rarely benefit from noisy distractions shaking up bagging
by adding random variants of classifiers can improve performance. Closer
analysis revealed that boostingperhaps the most powerful of the three
methodsis closely related to the established statistical technique of additive
models and this realization has led to improved procedures.
These combined models share the disadvantage of being difficult to analyze:
they can comprise dozens or even hundreds of individual models and although
they perform well it is not easy to understand in intuitive terms what factors
are contributing to the improved decisions. In the last few years methods have
been developed that combine the performance benefits of committees with
comprehensible models. Some produce standard decision tree models others
introduce new variants of trees that provide optional paths.
We close by introducing a further technique of combining models using
error-correcting output codes. This is more specialized than the other three techniques: it applies only to classification problems and even then only to ones that
have more than three classes.
Baggi Combining the decisions of different models means amalgamating the various
outputs into a single prediction. The simplest way to do this in the case of classification is to take a vote (perhaps a weighted vote) in the case of numeric prediction it is to calculate the average (perhaps a weighted average). Bagging and
boosting both adopt this approach but they derive the individual models in different ways. In bagging the models receive equal weight whereas in boosting
weighting is used to give more influence to the more successful onesjust as
an executive might place different values on the advice of different experts
depending on how experienced they are.
To introduce bagging suppose that several training datasets of the same size
are chosen at random from the problem domain. Imagine using a particular
machine learning technique to build a decision tree for each dataset. You might
expect these trees to be practically identical and to make the same prediction
for each new test instance. Surprisingly this assumption is usually quite wrong particularly if the training datasets are fairly small. This is a rather disturbing
fact and seems to cast a shadow over the whole enterprise! The reason for it is
that decision tree induction (at least the standard top-down method described
in Chapter 4) is an unstable process: slight changes to the training data may
easily result in a different attribute being chosen at a particular node with significant ramifications for the structure of the subtree beneath that node. This
automatically implies that there are test instances for which some of the decision trees produce correct predictions and others do not.
Returning to the preceding experts analogy consider the experts to be the
individual decision trees. We can combine the trees by having them vote on each
test instance. If one class receives more votes than any other it is taken as the
correct one. Generally the more the merrier: predictions made by voting
become more reliable as more votes are taken into account. Decisions rarely
deteriorate if new training sets are discovered trees are built for them and their
predictions participate in the vote as well. In particular the combined classifier
will seldom be less accurate than a decision tree constructed from just one of
the datasets. (Improvement is not guaranteed however. It can be shown theoretically that pathological situations exist in which the combined decisions are The effect of combining multiple hypotheses can be viewed through a theoretical device known as the biasvariance decomposition. Suppose that we could
have an infinite number of independent training sets of the same size and use
them to make an infinite number of classifiers. A test instance is processed by
all classifiers and a single answer is determined by majority vote. In this idealized situation errors will still occur because no learning scheme is perfect: the
error rate will depend on how well the machine learning method matches the
problem at hand and there is also the effect of noise in the data which cannot
possibly be learned. Suppose the expected error rate were evaluated by averaging the error of the combined classifier over an infinite number of independently chosen test examples. The error rate for a particular learning algorithm is
called its bias for the learning problem and measures how well the learning
method matches the problem. This technical definition is a way of quantifying
the vaguer notion of bias that was introduced in Section 1.5: it measures the
persistent error of a learning algorithm that cant be eliminated even by taking
an infinite number of training sets into account. Of course it cannot be calculated exactly in practical situations it can only be approximated.
A second source of error in a learned model in a practical situation stems
from the particular training set used which is inevitably finite and therefore not
fully representative of the actual population of instances. The expected value of
this component of the error over all possible training sets of the given size and
all possible test sets is called the variance of the learning method for that
problem. The total expected error of a classifier is made up of the sum of bias and variance: this is the biasvariance decomposition.4 Combining multiple
classifiers decreases the expected error by reducing the variance component. The
more classifiers that are included the greater the reduction in variance.
Of course a difficulty arises when putting this voting method into practice:
usually theres only one training set and obtaining more data is either impossible or expensive.
Bagging attempts to neutralize the instability of learning methods by simulating the process described previously using a given training set. Instead of sampling a fresh independent training dataset each time the original training data
is altered by deleting some instances and replicating others. Instances are randomly sampled with replacement from the original dataset to create a new
one of the same size. This sampling procedure inevitably replicates some of
the instances and deletes others. If this idea strikes a chord it is because we
described it in Chapter 5 when explaining the bootstrap method for estimating
the generalization error of a learning method (Section 5.4): indeed the term
bagging stands for bootstrap aggregating. Bagging applies the learning scheme
for example a decision tree inducerto each one of these artificially derived
datasets and the classifiers generated from them vote for the class to be predicted. The algorithm is summarized in Figure 7.7.
The difference between bagging and the idealized procedure described previously is the way in which the training datasets are derived. Instead of obtaining independent datasets from the domain bagging just resamples the original
training data. The datasets generated by resampling are different from one
another but are certainly not independent because they are all based on one
dataset. However it turns out that bagging produces a combined model that
often performs significantly better than the single model built from the original training data and is never substantially worse.
Bagging can also be applied to learning methods for numeric prediction
for example model trees. The only difference is that instead of voting on the
outcome the individual predictions being real numbers are averaged. The
biasvariance decomposition can be applied to numeric prediction as well by
decomposing the expected value of the mean-squared error of the predictions
on fresh data. Bias is defined as the mean-squared error expected when averaging over models built from all possible training datasets of the same size and
variance is the component of the expected error of a single model that is due
to the particular training data it was built from. It can be shown theoretically
that averaging over multiple models built from independent training sets always Bagging helps most if the underlying learning method is unstable in that small
changes in the input data can lead to quite different classifiers. Indeed it can
help to increase the diversity in the ensemble of classifiers by making the learning method as unstable as possible. For example when bagging decision trees
which are already unstable better performance is often achieved by switching
pruning off which makes them even more unstable. Another improvement can
be obtained by changing the way that predictions are combined for classification. As originally formulated bagging uses voting. But when the models can
output probability estimates and not just plain classifications it makes intuitive
sense to average these probabilities instead. Not only does this often improve
classification slightly but the bagged classifier also generates probability
estimatesones that are often more accurate than those produced by the individual models. Implementations of bagging commonly use this method of
combining predictions. In Section 5.7 we showed how to make a classifier cost sensitive by minimizing the expected cost of predictions. Accurate probability estimates are necessary because they are used to obtain the expected cost of each prediction.
Bagging is a prime candidate for cost-sensitive classification because it produces
very accurate probability estimates from powerful yet
unstable classifiers. However a disadvantage is that bagged classifiers are hard service
to analyze.
A method called MetaCost combines the predictive benefits of bagging with
a comprehensible. It builds an ensemble
classifier using bagging and uses it to relabel the training data by giving every training instance the prediction that minimizes the expected cost based on the
probability estimates obtained from bagging. MetaCost then discards the original class labels and learns a single new classifierfor example a single pruned
decision treefrom the relabeled data. This new model automatically takes
costs into account because they have been built into the class labels! The result
is a single cost-sensitive classifier that can be analyzed to see how predictions
are made.
In addition to the cost-sensitive classification technique just mentioned
Section 5.7 also described a cost-sensitive learning method that learns a costsensitive classifier by changing the proportion of each class in the training data
to reflect the cost matrix. MetaCost seems to produce more accurate results than
this method but it requires more computation. If there is no need for a comprehensible model MetaCosts postprocessing step is superfluous: it is better to
use the bagged classifier directly in conjunction with the minimum expected Although this algorithm is correct there are some problems with it. The first problem
Consider hundreds or thousands of clients all trying to acquire the lock. Each client places a watch on the lock
znode for changes in its set of children. Every time the lock is released or another
process starts the lock acquisition process the watch fires and every client receives a
notification. The herd effect refers to a large number of clients being notified of the
same event when only a small number of them can actually proceed. In this case only
one client will successfully acquire the lock and the process of maintaining and sending
watch events to all clients causes traffic spikes which put pressure on the ZooKeeper
servers.
To avoid the herd effect the condition for notification needs to be refined. The key
observation for implementing locks is that a client needs to be notified only when the
child znode with the previous sequence number goes away not when any child znode
is deleted (or created). In our example if clients have created the znodes /leader/
lock-1 /leader/lock-2 and /leader/lock-3 then the client holding /leader/lock-3 only
needs to be notified when /leader/lock-2 disappears. It does not need to be notified
when /leader/lock-1 disappears or when a new znode /leader/lock-4 is added.
Recoverable exceptions
Another problem with the lock algorithm as it stands is that it doesnt handle the case
when the create operation fails due to connection loss. Recall that in this case we do
not know if the operation succeeded or failed. Creating a sequential znode is a
nonidempotent operation so we cant simply retry since if the first create had succeeded we would have an orphaned znode that would never be deleted (until the
client session ended at least). Deadlock would be the unfortunate result.
The problem is that after reconnecting the client cant tell whether it created any of
the child znodes. By embedding an identifier in the znode name if it suffers a connection
loss it can check to see whether any of the children of the lock node have its identifier
in their name. If a child contains its identifier it knows that the create operation succeeded and it shouldnt create another child znode. If no child has the identifier in its
name then the client can safely create a new sequential child znode. BookKeeper is a highly-available and reliable logging service. It can be used to provide
write-ahead logging which is a common technique for ensuring data integrity in storage
systems. In a system using write-ahead logging every write operation is written to the
transaction log before it is applied. Using this procedure we dont have to write the
data to permanent storage after every write operation because in the event of a system
failure the latest state may be recovered by replaying the transaction log for any writes
that had not been applied.
BookKeeper clients create logs called ledgers and each record appended to a ledger is
called a ledger entry which is simply a byte array. Ledgers are managed by bookies
which are servers that replicate the ledger data. Note that ledger data is not stored in
ZooKeeper only metadata is.
Traditionally the challenge has been to make systems that use write-ahead logging
robust in the face of failure of the node writing the transaction log. This is usually done
by replicating the transaction log in some manner. Hadoops HDFS namenode for
instance writes its edit log to multiple disks one of which is typically an NFS mounted
disk. However in the event of failure of the primary failover is still manual. By providing logging as a highly available service BookKeeper promises to make failover
transparent since it can tolerate the loss of bookie servers. (In the case of HDFS HighAvailability described on 50 a BookKeeper-based edit log will remove the requirement
for using NFS for shared storage.)
Hedwig is a topic-based publish-subscribe system built on BookKeeper. Thanks to its
ZooKeeper underpinnings Hedwig is a highly available service and guarantees message
delivery even if subscribers are offline for extended periods of time. ZooKeeper machines should be located to minimize the impact of machine and network
failure. In practice this means that servers should be spread across racks power supplies and switches so that the failure of any one of these does not cause the ensemble
to lose a majority of its servers.
For applications that require low-latency service (on the order of a few milliseconds)
it is important to run all the servers in an ensemble in a single data center. Some use
cases dont require low-latency responses however which makes it feasible to spread
servers across data centers (at least two per data center) for extra resilience. Example
applications in this category are leader election and distributed coarse-grained locking
both of which have relatively infrequent state changes so the overhead of a few tens of
milliseconds that inter-data center messages incurs is not significant to the overall
functioning of the service. Quite so but the sequel was rather unusual. I will tell you however. I left the house a little after eight oclock this morning in the character of a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them and you will know all that there is to know. I soon found Briony Lodge. It is a bijou villa with a garden at the back but built out in front right up to the road two stories. Chubb lock to the door. Large sitting-room on the right side well furnished with long windows almost to the floor and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open. Behind there was nothing remarkable save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view but without noting anything else of interest.

I then lounged down the street and found as I expected that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden. I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses and received in exchange twopence a glass of half-and-half two fills of shag tobacco and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.

And what of Irene Adler I asked.

Oh she has turned all the mens heads down in that part. She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet. So say the Serpentine-mews to a man. She lives quietly sings at concerts drives out at five every day and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Seldom goes out at other times except when she sings. Has only one male visitor but a good deal of him. He is dark handsome and dashing never calls less than once a day and often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey Norton of the Inner Temple. See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant. They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews and knew all about him. When I had listened to all they had to tell I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more and to think over my plan of campaign.

This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter. He was a lawyer. That sounded ominous. What was the relation between them and what the object of his repeated visits Was she his client his friend or his mistress If the former she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping. If the latter it was less likely. On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge or turn my attention to the gentlemans chambers in the Temple. It was a delicate point and it widened the field of my inquiry. I fear that I bore you with these details but I have to let you see my little difficulties if you are to understand the situation.

I am following you closely I answered.Hansom

I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge and a gentleman sprang out. He was a remarkably handsome man dark aquiline and moustached--evidently the man of whom I had heard. He appeared to be in a great hurry shouted to the cabman to wait and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home.

He was in the house about half an hour and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room pacing up and down talking excitedly and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing. Presently he emerged looking even more flurried than before. As he stepped up to the cab he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly Drive like the devil he shouted first to Gross & Hankeys in Regent Street and then to the Church of St. Monica in the Edgeware Road. Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes

Away they went and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned and his tie under his ear while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles. It hadnt pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it. I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment but she was a lovely woman with a face that a man might die for.

 The Church of St. Monica John she cried and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.

This was quite too good to lose Watson. I was just balancing whether I should run for it or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street. The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare but I jumped in before he could object. The Church of St. Monica said I and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes. It was twenty-five minutes to twelve and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.

My cabby drove fast. I dont think I ever drove faster but the others were there before us. The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid the man and hurried into the church. There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman who seemed to be expostulating with them. They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar. I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church. Suddenly to my surprise the three at the altar faced round to me and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.

 Thank God he cried. Youll do. Come Come

 What then I asked.

 Come man come only three minutes or it wont be legal.

I was half-dragged up to the altar and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear and vouching for things of which I knew nothing and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler spinster to Godfrey Norton bachelor. It was all done in an instant and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other while the clergyman beamed on me in front. It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now. It seems that there had been some informality about their license that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign and I mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.

This is a very unexpected turn of affairs said I and what then

Well I found my plans very seriously menaced. It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part. At the church door however they separated he driving back to the Temple and she to her own house. I shall drive out in the park at five as usual she said as she left him. I heard no more. They drove away in different directions and I went off to make my own arrangements.

Which are

Some cold beef and a glass of beer he answered ringing the bell. I have been too busy to think of food and I am likely to be busier still this evening. By the way Doctor I shall want your co-operation.

I shall be delighted.

You dont mind breaking the law

Not in the least.

Nor running a chance of arrest

Not in a good cause.

Oh the cause is excellent

Then I am your man.

I was sure that I might rely on you.

But what is it you wish

When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you. Now he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided I must discuss it while I eat for I have not much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must be on the scene of action. Miss Irene or Madame rather returns from her drive at seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.

And what then

You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to occur. There is only one point on which I must insist. You must not interfere come what may. You understand

I am to be neutral

To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being conveyed into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open. You are to station yourself close to that open window.

Yes.

You are to watch me for I will be visible to you.

Yes.

And when I raise my hand--so--you will throw into the room what I give you to throw and will at the same time raise the cry of fire. You quite follow me

Entirely.

It is nothing very formidable he said taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket. It is an ordinary plumbers smoke-rocket fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire it will be taken up by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the street and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made myself clear

I am to remain neutral to get near the window to watch you and at the signal to throw in this object then to raise the cry of fire and to wait you at the corner of the street.

Precisely.

Then you may entirely rely on me.

That is excellent. I think perhaps it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.

He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His broad black hat his baggy trousers his white tie his sympathetic smile and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr. John Hare alone could have equalled. It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume. His expression his manner his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a fine actor even as science lost an acute reasoner when he became a specialist in crime.

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue. It was already dusk and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge waiting for the coming of its occupant. The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes succinct description but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected. On the contrary for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood it was remarkably animated. There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner a scissors-grinder with his wheel two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.

You see remarked Holmes as we paced to and fro in front of the house this marriage rather simplifies matters. The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Norton as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess. Now the question is Where are we to find the photograph

Where indeed

It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is cabinet size. Too large for easy concealment about a womans dress. She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two attempts of the sort have already been made. We may take it then that she does not carry it about with her.

Where then

Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But I am inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive and they like to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else She could trust her own guardianship but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man. Besides remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be in her own house.

But it has twice been burgled.

Pshaw They did not know how to look.

But how will you look

I will not look.

What then

I will get her to show me.

But she will refuse.

She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is her carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter.

As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper but was elbowed away by another loafer who had rushed up with the same intention. A fierce quarrel broke out which was increased by the two guardsmen who took sides with one of the loungers and by the scissors-grinder who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck and in an instant the lady who had stepped from her carriage was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground with the blood running freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other while a number of better dressed people who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene Adler as I will still call her had hurried up the steps but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall looking back into the street.

Is the poor gentleman much hurt she asked.

He is dead cried several voices.

No no theres life in him shouted another. But hell be gone before you can get him to hospital.

Hes a brave fellow said a woman. They would have had the ladys purse and watch if it hadnt been for him. They were a gang and a rough one too. Ah hes breathing now.

He cant lie in the street. May we bring him in marm

Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortable sofa. This way please

Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window. The lamps had been lit but the blinds had not been drawn so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me. I hardened my heart and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all I thought we are not injuring her. We are but preventing her from injuring another.

Holmes had sat up upon the couch and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of Fire The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators well dressed and ill--gentlemen ostlers and servant maids--joined in a general shriek of Fire Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm. Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friends arm in mine and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.

You did it very nicely Doctor he remarked. Nothing could have been better. It is all right.

You have the photograph

I know where it is.

And how did you find out

She showed me as I told you she would.

I am still in the dark.

I do not wish to make a mystery said he laughing. The matter was perfectly simple. You of course saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening.

I guessed as much.

Then when the row broke out I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand. I rushed forward fell down clapped my hand to my face and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.

That also I could fathom.

Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else could she do And into her sitting-room which was the very room which I suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom and I was determined to see which. They laid me on a couch I motioned for air they were compelled to open the window and you had your chance.

How did that help you

It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on fire her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most. It is a perfectly overpowering impulse and I have more than once taken advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married woman grabs at her baby an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull. She was there in an instant and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out. When I cried out that it was a false alarm she replaced it glanced at the rocket rushed from the room and I have not seen her since. I rose and making my excuses escaped from the house. I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once but the coachman had come in and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all.

And now I asked.

Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King to-morrow and with you if you care to come with us. We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph. It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.

And when will you call

At eight in the morning. She will not be up so that we shall have a clear field. Besides we must be prompt for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without delay.

We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:

Good-night Mister Sherlock Holmes.

There were several people on the pavement at the time but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.

Ive heard that voice before said Holmes staring down the dimly lit street. Now I wonder who the deuce that could have been.



I slept at Baker Street that night and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.

You have really got it he cried grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.

Not yet.

But you have hopes

I have hopes.

Then come. I am all impatience to be gone.

We must have a cab.

No my brougham is waiting.

Then that will simplify matters. We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.

Irene Adler is married remarked Holmes.

Married When

Yesterday.

But to whom

To an English lawyer named Norton.

But she could not love him.

I am in hopes that she does.

And why in hopes

Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance. If the lady loves her husband she does not love your Majesty. If she does not love your Majesty there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majestys plan.

It is true. And yet-- Well I wish she had been of my own station What a queen she would have made He relapsed into a moody silence which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.

The door of Briony Lodge was open and an elderly woman stood upon the steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.

Mr. Sherlock Holmes I believe said she.

I am Mr. Holmes answered my companion looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.

Indeed My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent.

What Sherlock Holmes staggered back white with chagrin and surprise. Do you mean that she has left England

Never to return.

And the papers asked the King hoarsely. All is lost.

We shall see. He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room followed by the King and myself. The furniture was scattered about in every direction with dismantled shelves and open drawers as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight. Holmes rushed at the bell-pull tore back a small sliding shutter and plunging in his hand pulled out a photograph and a letter. The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress the letter was superscribed to Sherlock Holmes Esq. To be left till called for. My friend tore it open and we all three read it together. It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:

MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES--You really did it very well. You took me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire I had not a suspicion. But then when I found how I had betrayed myself I began to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I had been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly be you. And your address had been given me. Yet with all this you made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I became suspicious I found it hard to think evil of such a dear kind old clergyman. But you know I have been trained as an actress myself. Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives. I sent John the coachman to watch you ran upstairs got into my walking clothes as I call them and came down just as you departed.

Well I followed you to your door and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Then I rather imprudently wished you good-night and started for the Temple to see my husband.

We both thought the best resource was flight when pursued by so formidable an antagonist so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow. As to the photograph your client may rest in peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care to possess and I remain dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes


Very truly yours              
IRENE NORTON nee ADLER.

What a woman--oh what a woman cried the King of Bohemia when we had all three read this epistle. Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was Would she not have made an admirable queen Is it not a pity that she was not on my level

From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty said Holmes coldly. I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majestys business to a more successful conclusion.


On the contrary my dear sir cried the King nothing could be more successful. I know that her word is inviolate. The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire.

I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.

I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I can reward you. This ring-- He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.

Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly said Holmes.

You have but to name it.

This photograph!

The King stared at him in amazement.

Irene's photograph! he cried. Certainly if you wish it.

I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in the matter. I have the honour to wish you a very good morning. He bowed and turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him he set off in my company for his chambers.

And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman's wit. He used to make merry over the cleverness of women but I have not heard him do it of late. And when he speaks of Irene Adler or when he refers to her photograph it is always under the honourable title of the woman.

ADVENTURE  II.  THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE


I had called upon my friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout florid-faced elderly gentleman with fiery red hair. With an apology for my intrusion I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.

You could not possibly have come at a better time my dear Watson he said cordially.

I was afraid that you were engaged.

So I am. Very much so.

Then I can wait in the next room.

Not at all. This gentleman Mr. Wilson has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases and I have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also.

The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes.

Try the settee said Holmes relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together as was his custom when in judicial moods. I know my dear Watson that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life. You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle and if you will excuse my saying so somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures.

Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me I observed.

You will remember that I remarked the other day just before we went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination.

A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting.

You did Doctor but none the less you must come round to my view for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right. Now Mr. Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some time. You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes and occasionally indeed where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed. As far as I have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to. Perhaps Mr. Wilson you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative. I ask you not merely because my friend Dr. Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips. As a rule when I have heard some slight indication of the course of events I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory. In the present instance I am forced to admit that the facts are to the best of my belief unique.

The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat. As he glanced down the advertisement column with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee I took a good look at the man and endeavoured after the fashion of my companion to read the indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance.

I did not gain very much however by my inspection. Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman obese pompous and slow. He wore rather baggy grey shepherd's check trousers a not over-clean black frock-coat unbuttoned in the front and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him. Altogether look as I would there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.

Sherlock Holmes' quick eye took in my occupation and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances. Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour that he takes snuff that he is a Freemason that he has been in China and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately I can deduce nothing else.

Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair with his forefinger upon the paper but his eyes upon my companion.

How in the name of good-fortune did you know all that Mr. Holmes he asked. How did you know for example that I did manual labour. It's as true as gospel for I began as a ship's carpenter.

Your hands my dear sir. Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left. You have worked with it and the muscles are more developed.

Well the snuff then and the Freemasonry

I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that especially as rather against the strict rules of your order you use an arc-and-compass breastpin.

Ah of course I forgot that. But the writing

What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk

Well but China

The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China. I have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject. That trick of staining the fishes' scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China. When in addition I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain the matter becomes even more simple.

Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. Well I never! said he. I thought at first that you had done something clever but I see that there was nothing in it after all.

I begin to think Watson said Holmes that I make a mistake in explaining. 'Omne ignotum pro magnifico' you know and my poor little reputation such as it is will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid. Can you not find the advertisement Mr. Wilson

Yes I have got it now he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column. Here it is. This is what began it all. You just read it for yourself sir.

I took the paper from him and read as follows:

TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE: On account of the bequest of the late Ezekiah Hopkins of Lebanon Pennsylvania U. S. A. there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of $4 a week for purely nominal services. All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years are eligible. Apply in person on Monday at eleven o'clock to Duncan Ross at the offices of the League 7 Pope's Court Fleet Street.

What on earth does this mean I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.

Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair as was his habit when in high spirits. It is a little off the beaten track isn't it said he. And now Mr. Wilson off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself your household and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes. You will first make a note Doctor of the paper and the date.

It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27 1890. Just two months ago.

Very good. Now Mr. Wilson

Well it is just as I have been telling you Mr. Sherlock Holmes said Jabez Wilson mopping his forehead I have a small pawnbroker's business at Coburg Square near the City. It's not a very large affair and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living. I used to be able to keep two assistants but now I only keep one and I would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business.

What is the name of this obliging youth asked Sherlock Holmes.

His name is Vincent Spaulding and he's not such a youth either. It's hard to say his age. I should not wish a smarter assistant Mr. Holmes and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I am able to give him. But after all if he is satisfied why should I put ideas in his head

Why indeed You seem most fortunate in having an employe who comes under the full market price. It is not a common experience among employers in this age. I dont know that your assistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement.

Oh he has his faults too said Mr. Wilson. Never was such a fellow for photography. Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures. That is his main fault but on the whole hes a good worker. Theres no vice in him.

He is still with you I presume

Yes sir. He and a girl of fourteen who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean--thats all I have in the house for I am a widower and never had any family. We live very quietly sir the three of us and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts if we do nothing more.

The first thing that put us out was that advertisement. Spaulding he came down into the office just this day eight weeks with this very paper in his hand and he says:

 I wish to the Lord Mr. Wilson that I was a red-headed man.

 Why that I asks.

 Why says he heres another vacancy on the League of the Red-headed Men. Its worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men so that the trustees are at their wits end what to do with the money. If my hair would only change colour heres a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.

 Why what is it then I asked. You see Mr. Holmes I am a very stay-at-home man and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the door-mat. In that way I didnt know much of what was going on outside and I was always glad of a bit of news.

 Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men he asked with his eyes open.

 Never.

 Why I wonder at that for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies.

 And what are they worth I asked.

 Oh merely a couple of hundred a year but the work is slight and it need not interfere very much with ones other occupations.

Well you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears for the business has not been over good for some years and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.

 Tell me all about it said I.

 Well said he showing me the advertisement you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy and there is the address where you should apply for particulars. As far as I can make out the League was founded by an American millionaire Ezekiah Hopkins who was very peculiar in his ways. He was himself red-headed and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour. From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do.

 But said I there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply.

 Not so many as you might think he answered. You see it is really confined to Londoners and to grown men. This American had started from London when he was young and he wanted to do the old town a good turn. Then again I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red or dark red or anything but real bright blazing fiery red. Now if you cared to apply Mr. Wilson you would just walk in but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.

Now it is a fact gentlemen as you may see for yourselves that my hair is of a very full and rich tint so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met. Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me. He was very willing to have a holiday so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.

I never hope to see such a sight as that again Mr. Holmes. From north south east and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement. Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk and Popes Court looked like a costers orange barrow. I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement. Every shade of colour they were--straw lemon orange brick Irish-setter liver clay but as Spaulding said there were not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint. When I saw how many were waiting I would have given it up in despair but Spaulding would not hear of it. How he did it I could not imagine but he pushed and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd and right up to the steps which led to the office. There was a double stream upon the stair some going up in hope and some coming back dejected but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office.

Your experience has been a most entertaining one remarked Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff. Pray continue your very interesting statement.

There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine. He said a few words to each candidate as he came up and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them. Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter after all. However when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others and he closed the door as we entered so that he might have a private word with us.

 This is Mr. Jabez Wilson said my assistant and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League.

 And he is admirably suited for it the other answered. He has every requirement. I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine. He took a step backward cocked his head on one side and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly he plunged forward wrung my hand and congratulated me warmly on my success.

 It would be injustice to hesitate said he. You will however I am sure excuse me for taking an obvious precaution. With that he seized my hair in both his hands and tugged until I yelled with the pain. There is water in your eyes said he as he released me. I perceive that all is as it should be. But we have to be careful for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you tales of cobblers wax which would disgust you with human nature. He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment came up from below and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.

 My name said he is Mr. Duncan Ross and I am myself one of the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are you a married man Mr. Wilson Have you a family

I answered that I had not.

His face fell immediately.

 Dear me! he said gravely that is very serious indeed! I am sorry to hear you say that. The fund was of course for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance. It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.

My face lengthened at this Mr. Holmes for I thought that I was not to have the vacancy after all but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.

 In the case of another said he the objection might be fatal but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours. When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties

 Well it is a little awkward for I have a business already said I.

 Oh never mind about that Mr. Wilson! said Vincent Spaulding. I should be able to look after that for you.

 What would be the hours I asked.

 Ten to two.

Now a pawnbrokers business is mostly done of an evening Mr. Holmes especially Thursday and Friday evening which is just before pay-day so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings. Besides I knew that my assistant was a good man and that he would see to anything that turned up.

 That would suit me very well said I. And the pay

 Is 4 a week.

 And the work

 Is purely nominal.

 What do you call purely nominal

 Well you have to be in the office or at least in the building the whole time. If you leave you forfeit your whole position forever. The will is very clear upon that point. You dont comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time.

 Its only four hours a day and I should not think of leaving said I.

 No excuse will avail said Mr. Duncan Ross neither sickness nor business nor anything else. There you must stay or you lose your billet.

 And the work

 Is to copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica. There is the first volume of it in that press. You must find your own ink pens and blotting-paper but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready to-morrow

 Certainly I answered.

 Then good-bye Mr. Jabez Wilson and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to gain. He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant hardly knowing what to say or do I was so pleased at my own good fortune.

Well I thought over the matter all day and by evening I was in low spirits again for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud though what its object might be I could not imagine. It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing. However in the morning I determined to have a look at it anyhow so I bought a penny bottle of ink and with a quill-pen and seven sheets of foolscap paper I started off for Popes Court.

Well to my surprise and delight everything was as right as possible. The table was set out ready for me and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work. He started me off upon the letter A and then he left me but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me. At two oclock he bade me good-day complimented me upon the amount that I had written and locked the door of the office after me.

This went on day after day Mr. Holmes and on Saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my weeks work. It was the same next week and the same the week after. Every morning I was there at ten and every afternoon I left at two. By degrees Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning and then after a time he did not come in at all. Still of course I never dared to leave the room for an instant for I was not sure when he might come and the billet was such a good one and suited me so well that I would not risk the loss of it.

Eight weeks passed away like this and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica and hoped with diligence that I might get on to the Bs before very long. It cost me something in foolscap and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings. And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.

To an end

Yes sir. And no later than this morning. I went to my work as usual at ten oclock but the door was shut and locked with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack. Here it is and you can read for yourself.

He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper. It read in this fashion:


THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

IS

DISSOLVED.

October 9 1890.


Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter.

I cannot see that there is anything very funny cried our client flushing up to the roots of his flaming head. If you can do nothing better than laugh at me I can go elsewhere.

No no cried Holmes shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen. I really wouldnt miss your case for the world. It is most refreshingly unusual. But there is if you will excuse my saying so something just a little funny about it. Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door

I was staggered sir. I did not know what to do. Then I called at the offices round but none of them seemed to know anything about it. Finally I went to the landlord who is an accountant living on the ground floor and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League. He said that he had never heard of any such body. Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan Ross was. He answered that the name was new to him.

 Well said I the gentleman at No. 4.

 What the red-headed man

 Yes.

 Oh said he his name was William Morris. He was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready. He moved out yesterday.

 Where could I find him

 Oh at his new offices. He did tell me the address. Yes 17 King Edward Street near St. Pauls.

I started off Mr. Holmes but when I got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee-caps and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.

And what did you do then asked Holmes.

I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square and I took the advice of my assistant. But he could not help me in any way. He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post. But that was not quite good enough Mr. Holmes. I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle so as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it I came right away to you.

And you did very wisely said Holmes. Your case is an exceedingly remarkable one and I shall be happy to look into it. From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear.

Grave enough! said Mr. Jabez Wilson. Why I have lost four pound a week.

As far as you are personally concerned remarked Holmes I do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league. On the contrary you are as I understand richer by some $30 to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject which comes under the letter A. You have lost nothing by them.

No sir. But I want to find out about them and who they are and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was a prank--upon me. It was a pretty expensive joke for them for it cost them two and thirty pounds.

We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you. And first one or two questions Mr. Wilson. This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he been with you

About a month then.

How did he come

In answer to an advertisement.

Was he the only applicant

No I had a dozen.

Why did you pick him

Because he was handy and would come cheap.

At half wages in fact.

Yes.

What is he like this Vincent Spaulding

Small stout-built very quick in his ways no hair on his face though hes not short of thirty. Has a white splash of acid upon his forehead.

Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement. I thought as much said he. Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings

Yes sir. He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad.

Hum! said Holmes sinking back in deep thought. He is still with you

Oh yes sir I have only just left him.

And has your business been attended to in your absence

Nothing to complain of sir. Theres never very much to do of a morning.

That will do Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two. To-day is Saturday and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.

Well Watson said Holmes when our visitor had left us what do you make of it all

I make nothing of it I answered frankly. It is a most mysterious business.

As a rule said Holmes the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be. It is your commonplace featureless crimes which are really puzzling just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify. But I must be prompt over this matter.

What are you going to do then I asked.

To smoke he answered. It is quite a three pipe problem and I beg that you wont speak to me for fifty minutes. He curled himself up in his chair with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird. I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep and indeed was nodding myself when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.

Sarasate plays at the St. Jamess Hall this afternoon he remarked. What do you think Watson Could your patients spare you for a few hours

I have nothing to do to-day. My practice is never very absorbing.

Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City first and we can have some lunch on the way. I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French. It is introspective and I want to introspect. Come along!

We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning. It was a poky little shabby-genteel place where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere. Three gilt balls and a brown board with JABEZ WILSON in white letters upon a corner house announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business. Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids. Then he walked slowly up the street and then down again to the corner still looking keenly at the houses. Finally he returned to the pawnbroker's and having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times he went up to the door and knocked. It was instantly opened by a bright-looking clean-shaven young fellow who asked him to step in.

Thank you said Holmes I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand.

Third right fourth left answered the assistant promptly closing the door.

Smart fellow that observed Holmes as we walked away. He is in my judgment the fourth smartest man in London and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third. I have known something of him before.

Evidently said I Mr. Wilson's assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League. I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him.

Not him.

What then

The knees of his trousers.

And what did you see

What I expected to see.

Why did you beat the pavement

My dear doctor this is a time for observation not for talk. We are spies in an enemy's country. We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square. Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.

The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back. It was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west. The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians. It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted.

Let me see said Holmes standing at the corner and glancing along the line I should like just to remember the order of the houses here. It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London. There is Mortimer's the tobacconist the little newspaper shop the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank the Vegetarian Restaurant and McFarlane's carriage-building depot. That carries us right on to the other block. And now Doctor we've done our work so it's time we had some play. A sandwich and a cup of coffee and then off to violin-land where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony and there are no red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.

My friend was an enthusiastic musician being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit. All the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness gently waving his long thin fingers in time to the music while his gently smiling face and his languid dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound Holmes the relentless keen-witted ready-handed criminal agent as it was possible to conceive. In his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented as I have often thought the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him. The swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy and as I knew well he was never so truly formidable as when for days on end he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions. Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals. When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St. James's Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down.

You want to go home no doubt Doctor he remarked as we emerged.

Yes it would be as well.

And I have some business to do which will take some hours. This business at Coburg Square is serious.

Why serious

A considerable crime is in contemplation. I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it. But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters. I shall want your help to-night.

At what time

Ten will be early enough.

I shall be at Baker Street at ten.

Very well. And I say Doctor there may be some little danger so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket. He waved his hand turned on his heel and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.
interrupt  extravagance  jokes  suppress  quod  signify  layer  clue  kettle  contemplate  aforesaid  tooth  sensibility  boldness  mature  cuba  tolerable  rabbit  befallen  needless  yankee  awaken  clasp  lets  blinded  conductor  dependence  guarantee  affectionately  player  wires  thicket  walker  outstretched  procedure  wheeled  aye  oneself  recommendation  projecting  shriek  futile  cheerfulness  deity  fifteenth  gap  muscular  dripping  insect  values  brooding  restaurant  baptism  imaginative  rhyme  exhaustion  intrigue  senseless  hercules  yearly  baron  occupying  imply  absurdity  launched  resolutely  vowed  attach  characterized  fellowship  posture  caps  leon  demanding  owl  beset  ensuring  suite  tennyson  thereto  heaped  jewel  regained  voluntarily  longitude  permanently  jumping  babe  secondly  violin  rogue  rainy  reconciliation  emotional  radical  accursed  tendencies  concrete  resident  lustre  

 

hull  ominous  overboard  uproar  cavern  combine  respectively  menace  pilgrims  jeff  peak  currency  silken  violet  khan  mastery  objective  plucked  litter  memorial  bids  fondly  clapped  tariff  beneficial  unsolicited  reluctant  separately  patronage  revenues  dragon  zeus  mike  ranges  vexation  indicates  overheard  tray  raymond  thereafter  exporting  mound  taxation  frenzy  horizontal  thirsty  disputed  charter  redistribution  boasted  item  moscow  termination  eminently  suggestive  linger  shady  calculation  expansion  mast  confer  sophia  commanders  pitied  twist  traditional  involve  interfered  achilles  wanton  repay  brother in law  routine  son in law  gaul  groom  solve  grassy  tempt  unsuccessful  witty  politician  yearning  lid  noticing  courtiers  cheering  bounty  consequent  renown  regulation  fowl  mayor  wrinkled  defy  threads  violation  junction  boss  particles  


glories  signifies  constrained  paternal  piles  hardware  engaging  e g  peer  counties  mocking  ch  avoiding  rebuke  abolished  cheers  idiot  rd  morbid  wrung  e mail  outcome  gilt  coldness  applying  strand  renowned  fishermen  creative  circus  moustache  proverb  lowering  biggest  sly  nursing  boon  weighing  oklahoma  brink  degraded  avenge  hum  minority  spaniard  ridges  perils  larry  merchandise  aloof  despairing  acquisition  asylum  chickens  placid  affirm  trod  gardener  schedule  calmness  protector  concealment  trench  fore  accession  h  dey  connexion  cairo  mend  considers  twenty one  municipal  achievements  cherish  deserving  exert  riot  veteran  advancement  inventor  meek  cameron  hopelessly  judicious  tending  testify  governess  orchestra  garb  condemnation  foregoing  bacon  maternal  wasting  australian  strata  hushed  maryland  sculpture  


 

miniature  corrections  tangled  completion  regulated  athenian  flavor  brand  intimately  unlimited  dipped  luggage  inconsistent  forsaken  feebly  woven  lloyd  rubbish  tool  spirited  christendom  chaos  twinkling  muffled  accents  accidentally  degradation  emancipation  prosecution  cleveland  outbreak  defending  dwarf  abundantly  turner  disadvantage  abolition  disregard  deliberation  filthy  ak  notifies  dealings  demonstrated  paced  tense  drums  interpreter  vanish  astray  hen  workman  asunder  baked  baltimore  bustle  winged  mentioning  pastoral  fabric  trim  musician  twenty two  patty  mentally  wrecked  discreet  godfrey  apostle  ledge  roast  accessed  preface  convincing  quiver  stocks  mourn  commented  redistribute  precipice  outdated  juliet  dialect  elementary  freight  cowardice  wipe  deserts  shelves  denial  b  traits  denounced  eric  underground  phantom  whirling  pecuniary  dire  hostilities  

 

gait  it'll  vividly  instruct  dickens  puritan  clutched  acknowledgment  conjunction  oppressive  intermediate  formula  hungary  sneer  ore  plentiful  plump  combinations  purest  cheat  doubly  inadequate  leslie  blest  forbear  haunt  treaties  fearless  constable  enveloped  enmity  watson  bridegroom  curate  developing  frock  mining  audacity  improper  motto  parisian  faction  architect  melting  delicately  register  heroine  indefinite  console  defensive  perceptible  fruitless  ransom  surplus  solicitude  effectual  shiver  gal  wed  contemptuous  plough  snakes  felicity  reef  outset  constitutes  lament  tissue  draft  impelled  epic  fisherman  hawaii  obstinacy  ulysses  lemon  voltaire  hound  measuring  conscientious  robber  toy  impart  statute  barry  girdle  basil  rebellious  stair  biting  consulting  perseverance  manila  massacre  cough  blazed  claude  transition  button  headache  

 

tenant  burns  harmonious  dreamy  burgundy  collections  unkind  inscribed  cushions  programme  din  laborious  manufacturing  markets  zone  humane  ac  fertility  languid  ninth  curses  introducing  alcohol  impending  declining  advantageous  heal  millennium  karl  ft  staid  planting  theatrical  spectator  winchester  greedy  commonwealth  suffrage  tremulous  commodities  stuffed  admitting  aching  ninety  discomfort  imperative  montreal  bobby  bachelor  geographical  longest  courageous  carpenter  sundays  concluding  danish  steer  influential  surround  random  ounce  afresh  dictated  ruddy  rusty  drown  irving  slide  sow  appalling  profess  sickly  rides  spoon  imminent  dominant  leadership  pinch  wearily  ducks  diary  duchess  regain  rum  churchyard  fondness  apprehend  ordinarily  quicker  thereon  ni  balloon  individuality  securely  connecting  celebrate  bluff  dawned  amiss  chalk  

 

sticking  fuss  dazed  deputy  forsake  automobile  discussions  harrison  refreshment  amendment  appealing  eden  vertical  insufficient  manchester  hem  gorge  baptized  damn  silvery  pastor  inherent  preventing  inference  advertisement  mutton  packing  enclosure  theft  publisher  spontaneous  otto  rats  apparition  refreshing  irene  sweetheart  renounce  lifeless  adore  vinegar  normandy  uncovered  utility  orphan  symbols  gracefully  mightily  peculiarity  ash  floods  partake  contemptible  deities  profane  foreseen  ti  conceit  commend  twelfth  bristol  manifestation  revive  prone  connect  princely  overtake  improving  downwards  ferocious  intervention  subsistence  susceptible  tunnel  disciple  revival  twins  ivy  puzzle  citadel  temporarily  despotism  internet  mechanism  stoop  directors  mathematics  raft  fade  soothe  pork  substituted  physically  brilliancy  dot  loaf  expanse  shocking  rudely  isle  

 

balanced  extracted  fable  matches  index  gerard  cigars  liver  transmit  dispatch  onto  veranda  dip  inexplicable  liar  diminish  dungeon  unit  pagan  phillips  brig  monopoly  rim  sordid  complaining  temperate  chat  gambling  maps  amber  trot  howl  shipping  ton  magazines  bricks  submarine  roberts  cumberland  cecil  semblance  palestine  perpendicular  regardless  fervent  sane  wreath  animation  earthquake  sloping  smoothly  tension  intrigues  fearfully  macaulay  laboratory  cork  comments  whale  wedded  whiteness  convicted  deception  paved  scruple  paintings  therewith  religions  governing  colleagues  shrinking  tickets  prophetic  undergo  hare  haze  poisonous  omit  beware  sagacity  concession  worker  ted  incline  caste  leapt  dissatisfied  hardest  self control  toilet  buddha  offense  woodland  gentry  starvation  grudge  penance  tips  rooted  outburst  

 

fortitude  turk  devour  malignant  accorded  brandon  anticipate  speechless  inquisition  eccentric  anecdote  annals  scrutiny  burroughs  rhythm  discord  marius  diversion  archie  rat  knit  correspond  detain  dis  esp  interpret  vehement  soda  naughty  salon  operate  idly  imperious  peru  candid  whig  blooming  wharf  disgraceful  stunned  redemption  drain  wage  cooper  embassy  unfinished  nasty  impetuous  cemetery  oblivion  prohibited  breeches  abound  christine  frivolous  hugo  essays  plaster  tap  chairman  dismiss  katherine  provoke  reside  deficient  decoration  heroism  toe  wade  apparel  hazel  inability  farthest  invent  knave  twain  carelessness  affectation  connections  climax  avowed  industries  brood  tempting  define  antwerp  forefathers  stretches  gratifying  plight  restricted  cupboard  ludicrous  alms  colossal  stupidity  monotony  stimulus  vigilance  digest  

 

vale  overcoat  colorado  wink  nous  rack  incomprehensible  antagonist  methinks  barley  plateau  superintendent  indescribable  expanded  presentation  archbishop  devise  rubber  adieu  exclude  carts  lone  whisky  abuses  inflict  nightfall  counts  chocolate  privileged  hermit  exultation  overtook  coincidence  scratch  screw  caravan  divert  eliza  comparing  hood  explore  glove  chaste  whirl  adventurous  skipper  tiresome  implements  recompense  plank  insure  laboured  exaggeration  mi  shepherds  lilies  ballad  befall  cylinder  teddy  summary  daresay  photographs  colleges  dissolution  geneva  marches  instituted  seals  vehemence  chaplain  knots  wail  kneel  unlikely  deceit  challenged  geography  herald  lowly  peep  swarm  clarke  joyfully  engraved  ll  bowels  purposely  blindness  systematic  virtually  conformity  remedies  maxim  indexes  marshall  baking  invincible  impertinent  bust  


 

visage  intuition  mingle  bathing  arched  investment  tabernacle   client  ghostly  furs  catalogue  dock  tenor  arouse  verbal  excessively  brazil  strenuous  irishman  recess  unclean  psalms  analogy  chemistry  peninsula  infer  maritime  secular  hawk  rein  averted  bake  constantine  oracle  alley  softness  pierce  spinning  snatch  manufactured  launch  psychology  worms  regulate  farming  fasten  actress  etiquette  theater  thanksgiving  valor  untouched  tactics  drug  adverse  gaunt  conducting  veritable  overtaken  distorted  rosa  nina  quart  caprice  candy  obliging  planets  soothed  sic  opium  pavilion  strait  sanguine  cords  odour  trout  paste  regularity  metallic  scrap  convict  instructive  investigate  celtic  package  pirate  fiend  moan  revealing  trades  rounds  accomplishments  crawl  aft  prevalent  role  dose  evans  hypocrisy  

 

l  salmon  snap  alma  magical  tire  hetty  impenetrable  geese  madly  manifold  noticeable  pudding  volcanic  locke  magnetic  deals  core  decency  observance  durst  scratched  predecessor  diplomacy  wert  impartial  disinterested  wig  pump  swedish  norfolk  reigns  similarly  reap  dam  facilities  slippery  transformation  oxygen  suburbs  dares  ornamental  pondered  fringe  raiment  henrietta  wellington  foreman  feat  thirteenth  sultan  certificate  rue  heresy  arabia  medal  location  ether  ruby  heading  subdue  adorn  ancestor  warmer  cluster  quotation  fullest  exposition  custody  thermometer  plausible  toss  desperation  rhetoric  scornful  bailey  rung  civility  dingy  scaffold  concentration  avarice  scrape  pools  oar  flutter  martyr  handy  montague  bait  login  commotion  congenial  drawers  telescope  deposits  edwards  craving  bureau  oscar  


 

speculative  huddled  diverse  slice  renaissance  angelo  meg  murderous  serenity  perspiration  coventry  impudent  ardor  necklace  alight  stimulated  clifford  steadfast  genoa  anglo saxon  courier  inflamed  xi  drill  spelling  respond  seriousness  fourteenth  womb  literal  singers  usefulness  cloudy  mortality  profusion  fleeting  twentieth  maturity  surf  weed  phases  overcame  womanhood  envious  tapped  latent  whiskey  relatively  forbidding  cleopatra  willow  mathematical  sojourn  booty  camel  implore  amateur  morally  qualifications  gasp   gliding  tested  racing  brightest  joel  extremes  damascus  labored  peggy  exit  originality  humming  isolation  sometime  glee  adult  solace  biography  ff  hardship  lied  donkey  trader  rumour  amply  confide  favors  perspective  belgian  withstand  robust  pro  val  eats  snare  monthly  wines  ignore  envoy  

 

flown  reverie  jehovah  contrive  chatter  judas  nourishment  reforms  clatter  adrian  allude  corrupted  thorn  junior  tony  calcutta  re  holt  psychological  constancy  misunderstood  signals  drying  harshly  distressing  novelist  cyril  editors  intricate  limestone  forty five  collision  pebbles  willie  knitting  ordeal  foresee  peas  repast  supplying  clan  abject  dart  berth  bridal  indirect  unnoticed  tint  insults  precedent  twisting  bully  vacation  'll  canon  aisle  click  inspiring  oval  impracticable  delirium  cedar  contradict  ingratitude  soften  bewilderment  servitude  comely  stump  redeem  spun  elastic  poultry  horseman  dictionary  prettiest  adoration  icel  wager  involving  pathway  essex  wistful  advent  gear  celebration  conceivable  drowning  faintest  acquiring  befell  good looking  wares  rendezvous  snug  watery  accompaniment  chaps  crawling  lumber  

 

publishing  customer  mediaeval  prints  lavish  md  genesis  rug  analogous  eleventh  noah  galley  partition  blunder  glasgow  fanciful  ham  rainbow  sentinel  hereby  outlook  smitten  unmarried  mice  installed  vivacity  marking  aesthetic  consume  resent  pose  contentment  sterling  veneration  p m  barking  bower  organism  unintelligible  emphatic  occurring  factors  guise  editorial  impudence  midday  corporal  sg  aright  nigger  lily  noun  scout  spit  cursing  friedrich  manifestly  marco  battalion  heritage  brotherhood  nun  wad  folding  discerned  powerfully  mitchell  helpful  persist  ellis  frigate  spotted  atoms  curves  outlet  erroneous  violated  withheld  fairies  inherit  sledge  taller  supervision  butt  handsomely  tank  velocity  arctic  colleague  pins  butcher  drowsy  butterfly  chart  twin  sunken  exasperated  narrowly  collins  insulting  

 

deficiency  operating  overthrown  gallows  diligent  hindu  blunt  omen  bleak  vehemently  wretchedness  e'er  ensure  denotes  sentenced  unfair  encampment  possessor  absorbing  descendant  sub  drugs  engineers  independently  bucket  clerical  ache  glitter  ordinance  bamboo  amsterdam  vocation  admirer  limp  pallid  mildly  organisation  timothy  dealer  yorkshire  auspicious  deuce  emblem  gibson  primarily  reducing  ritual  decorations  thigh  groaning  scant  fiscal  mien  charging  cor  railing  peers  inferred  sanctity  accumulation  cynical  inspector  wardrobe  jesuit  texture  adjustment  epistle  adventurer  priesthood  seaman  turbulent  chant  marsh  palmer  unaware  vase  ty  initial  baths  weighty  minimum  correction  morsel  overlook  meagre  unanimous  magician  mystical  twenty three  inhabit  shaggy  unaccountable  nightmare  carbon  coil  lawless  stairway  willingness  sarcasm  crisp  

 

jerk  tout  vocabulary  stroll  poorly  composing  parliamentary  controlling  fitness  thoughtless  soames  temperance  illumination  translations  martyrdom  mellow  nationality  jam  austere  shoots  casually  pensive  flavour  nets  dice  satisfactorily  shrunk  administer  ante  swine  baptist  listener  unimportant  genera  contrivance  deplorable  museum  benefactor  tints  alphabet  rout  scatter  boer  ftp  steve  extant  bohemia  misunderstanding  universities  dexterity  rag  inseparable  punch  brazen  economical  pernicious  craig  mythology  drained  bolted  abel  stride  circumference  meddle  axis  gum  las  kinder  closes  ferocity  giddy  secluded  resisting  satisfying  reliable  disgusting  thirty six  ethical  raleigh  crouching  lash  recital  buddhist  collapse  unsatisfactory  lore  varies  mainland  scot  repute  cushion  confound  scrub  myth  flights  oats  layers  ownership  cape  glimmer  


 

scare  waked  bengal  scrupulous  equals  redress  brake  nut  stability  crafty  kirk  bough  momentous  albeit  enlarge  hardness  civilised  dotted  defiant  timidity  solar  heartless  thomson  mat  shun  raid  disclose  suppression  puff  juncture  beak  unjustly  foresaw  rot  aggressive  predicted  quaker  grate  lease  ponderous  maketh  repaid  charcoal  chilly  arrogance  friction  participation  pier  stale  intoxicated  commissioned  ratio   comb  masterpiece  wholesale  embraces  trodden  ephraim  shaw  translate  mortar  recreation  rite  truthful  cavalier  caress  si  curling  rivalry  whim  abreast  thebes  faust  peg  wilhelm  pestilence  ceremonial  receiver  sample  distinctive  consummate  matron  claiming  plural  initiative  inexhaustible  a m  spider  reed  streak  blocked  titus  smashed  populous  baronet  commodore  jelly  advocates  dinah  

 

salutation  mutiny  chronicles  comforting  serviceable  parchment  playful  potato  transient  administrative  anarchy  barber  revision  operated  farce  germ  profile  provides  noting  disordered  menacing  heightened  finance  averse  azure  bathe  campaigns  lessen  slate  acquaint  gin  humiliating  cleft  conveyance  chivalrous  capricious  tribune  pilgrim  entreaty  womanly  paltry  sporting  maker  digestion  bart  infamy  lambs  gaping  periodical  standpoint  amorous  tub  luxuriant  basic  mutually  chris  greed  premature  extinction  boiler  intimation  scandalous  separating  oratory  banish  electrical  herb  multiply  prosper  friar  nightly  ole  monkeys  interminable  enjoys  similarity  riddle  cleaning  subscription  copious  exclaim  forged  voting  scourge  darkly  privacy  arena  bearded  vera  alacrity  sensual  spin  neutrality  flannel  fasting  trailer  avert  trustworthy  jamaica  unchanged  

 

traveler  unfamiliar  puffed  mirrors  phoebe  father in law  conform  particle  railways  stupendous  paddle  innate  reformation  volley  statistics  agrees  simpler  padre  congratulations  lids  muse  inhabitant  ishmael  rustle  clump  calendar  flute  inaccessible  yore  jay  repulsive  fray  po  nomination  conclusive  peaceable  beth  inconceivable  e'en  emerald  lava  trillion  uppermost  arduous  lyric  downright  reproduction  foresight  consistency  ape  senators  pallor  span  salad  snuff  drooped  greetings  chestnut  inquisitive  vicar  noel  attic  savings  affirmative  ills  applications  t  dye  gloucester  nominal  demonstrate  dispense  dissatisfaction  merciless  trusty  coloring  perusal  plaintive  discarded  precarious  infection  ruinous  bolts  arithmetic  considerate  lark  ethics  conventions  stumbling  pitcher  slips  seine  officially  danube  annoy  glide  impunity  amends  sol  conveying  

 

abandonment  mane  tinge  brim  forenoon  seventy five  sparkle  syllables  shrug  enchantment  franz  trait  bribe  composer  preparatory  audacious  outskirts  soiled  fiddle  football  isaiah  partnership  continuation  pioneer  vest  bass  derby  quarry  rigging  dizzy  abnormal  omission  idolatry  sequence  squeeze  cabbage  canopy  athletic  shirley  drunkenness  intrusion  'cause  assign  tackle  dreamt  sceptre  exacting  parched  eddy  percentage  twinkle  curb  sandstone  invaluable  fathom  preferable  adelaide  advertising  scraps  lever  muster  cavity  barbarian  sleepless  fried  abstraction  forefinger  spade  erection  scorned  pail  withdrawal  senator  mortgage  ancestral  succour  ma  forbearance  repress  spouse  valid  witchcraft  workmanship  legacy  proximity  bombay  paula  incorporated  muzzle  reuben  clusters  valve  compelling  dissipated  flickering  guinea  sup  tarry  derision  vehicles  

 

accommodate  glossy  iris  relic  ant  heath  bug  vocal  downfall  construct  undue  vapor  bat  whimsical  contradictory  unlocked  foretold  automatic  explicit  indolent  mates  artful  downcast  well being  winston  ordinances  catharine  effectively  missions  stalk  indistinct  pregnant  reddish  coveted  fret  peeping  buck  sumptuous  indefinitely  reliance  panama  cocked  dad  everyday  intoxication  aghast  subterranean  turmoil  forfeit  chasm  inspect  perverse  precipitate  dover  ambush  evermore  mass  blot  nook  verdure  parapet  jake  cessation  ankle  classification  fervently  oddly  haul  saxony  embarrassing  hairy  northwest  disabled  laurel  preston  arrogant  hurts  demonstrations  splash  curl  livelihood  wary  scattering  brace  converts  detestable   abandoning  somerset  weakly  clothe  gem  tremor  surveying  variable  anniversary  thirty two  wrap  curly  diversity  


 

prestige  desertion  freezing  heedless  sentry  believer  ram  rowing  negligence  self  sulphur  discrimination  cooling  millionaire  flowering  meridian  wins  awed  beastly  nuisance  abstain  continental  stanza  target  unwonted  whit  jason  stall  sham  dictate  empress  gout  jobs  manure  nigel  sidewalk  sate  grievance  axes  bony  invest  birmingham  ebb  rabble  restlessness  cruise  rally  rumor  hysterical  girlish  actively  shortest  marseilles  cheque  disregarded  retort  rocking  emerge  perch  flask  ka  countryman  lonesome  manned  unarmed  wast  frog  twenty eight  unscrupulous  yarn  victuals  outrageous  appropriation  foolishness  quickness  adversity  parma  diseased  iliad  salutary  smelt  territorial  hurricane  irons  canyon  jeremiah  brooklyn  indulging  vapour  disobedience  atrocious  leaps  tapestry  provocation  twenty six  impotent  smite  acquitted  os  tumultuous

nay  lit  handkerchief  basket  easier  deserve  quit  assurance  mirror  plot  yer  upward  sadly  secretary  adding  modest  dish  cares  straw  net  advised  heavenly  largest  proceeding  impatient  wounds  warmth  certainty  restless  meantime  rays  salvation  lovers  experiment  shores  today  tremendous  afforded  moonlight  intend  california  cultivated  flushed  shakespeare  newspapers  rocky  pious  wont  steam  improvement  garments  ned  treasury  merchants  perpetual  trained  products  affectionate  dispute  visitors  poison  proposition  maybe  rifle  warned  parting  shield  erected  employ  prevailed  talent  rises  climate  chairs  searched  unlike  recover  mate  arrange  fortunes  puzzled  committee  aged  ohio  ashes  ghost  b  promises  bushes  effective  distinguish  manifest  comparatively  esteem  blew  revelation  wash  recognition  confession  clay  

 

nonsense  trunk  management  undoubtedly  dried  dorothy  chiefs  coal  stolen  earthly  restore  indirectly  lasted  selfish  renewed  canoe  protest  vice  races  deemed  temporary  pile  frederick  chapel  moderate  spell  massachusetts  upright  quoted  area  bone  solitude  instruments  formal  students  greatness  struggling  monday  reproach  altered  grim  leaped  venice  federal  questioned  editor  desirable  acknowledge  motionless  remedy  bestowed  pursue  representative  pole  gladly  linen  vital  sink  pacific  hopeless  dangers  gratefully  president  travelled  ward  nephew  ms  cheer  bloody  siege  commands  justified  atlantic  stomach  improved  admire  openly  sailors  abide  advancing  forests  records  polly  recorded  modification  dramatic  statements  upstairs  varied  letting  wilson  comrades  sets  descent  whither  envy  load  pretend  folded  brass  

 

internal  furious  curtain  healthy  obscure  summit  alas  fifth  center  faced  cheap  saints  colonel  egyptian  contest  owned  adventures  exclusion  seize  chances  springs  alter  landing  fence  leagues  glimpse  statue  contract  luxury  artillery  doubts  saving  fro  string  combination  awakened  faded  arrest  protected  temperature  strict  contented  professional  intent  brother's  injured  neighborhood  andrew  abundance  smoking  yourselves  medical  garrison  likes  corps  heroic  inform  wife's  retained  agitation  nobles  prominent  institution  judged  embrace  wheels  closing  damaged  pack  affections  eldest  anguish  surrounding  obviously  strictly  capture  drops  inquire  ample  remainder  justly  recollection  deer  answers  bedroom  purely  bush  plunged  thyself  joint  refer  expecting  madam  railroad  spake  respecting  jan  columns  weep  identify  

 

discharge  bench  ralph  heir  oak  rescue  limit  unpleasant  anxiously  innocence  awoke  expectation  incomplete  program  reserved  secretly  we've  invention  faults  disagreeable  piano  defeated  charms  purse  persuade  deprived  electric  endless  interval  chase  heroes  invisible  well known  occupy  jacob  gown  cruelty  lock  lowest  hesitation  withdrew  proposal  destiny  recognised  commons  foul  loaded  amidst  titles  ancestors  types  commanding  madness  happily  assigned  declined  temptation  lady's  subsequent  jewels  breathed  willingly  youthful  bells  spectacle  uneasy  shine  formidable  stately  machinery  fragments  rushing  attractive  product  economic  sickness  uses  dashed  engine  ashore  dates  theirs  adv  clasped  international  leather  spared  crushed  interfere  subtle  waved  slope  floating  worry  effected  passengers  violently  donation  steamer  witnesses  

 

specified  learnt  stores  designed  guessed  roger  timber  talents  heed  jackson  murdered  vivid  woe  calculate  killing  laura  savages  wasted  trifle  funny  pockets  philosopher  insult  den  representation  incapable  eloquence  dine  temples  ann  sensitive  robin  appetite  wishing  picturesque  douglas  courtesy  flowing  remembrance  lawyers  sphere  murmur  elegant  honourable  stopping  guilt  welfare  avoided  fishing  perish  sober  steal  delicious  infant  lip  norman  offended  dost  memories  wheat  japanese  humor  exhibited  encounter  footsteps  marquis  smiles  amiable  twilight  arrows  consisting  park  retire  economy  sufferings  secrets  na  halted  govern  favourable  colors  translated  stretch  formation  immortal  gallery  parallel  lean  tempted  frontier  continent  knock  impatience  unity  dealing  prohibition  decent  fiery  images  tie  

 

punished  submitted  julia  albert  rejoined  speedily  consented  major  preliminary  cell  void  placing  prudence  egg  amazement  border  artificial  hereafter  fanny  crimes  breathe  exempt  anchor  chicago  sits  purchased  eminent  neighbors  glowing  sunlight  examples  exercised  wealthy  seeming  bonaparte  shouting  thanked  illustrious  curiously  inspiration  seeds  naval  foes  everyone  longed  abundant  doubted  painter  greeted  erect  glasses  meanwhile  shooting  athens  wagon  lend  lent  crisis  undertake  particulars  eh  veins  polite  anna  experiences  seal  header  clergy  mount  array  corners  magazine  loudly  bitterness  texas  guardian  searching  rejected  harsh  includes  boldly  maurice  kate  lunch  pine  shells  seconds  despite  hoping  injustice  expressions  flies  push  tight  problems  landscape  sue  protested  scarlet  abandon  


 

artistic  mainly  measured  loyal  boiling  desirous  suited  alliance  advise  waist  sinking  apprehension  stable  gregory  maximum  commit  hideous  hamilton  sweetness  dismissed  tore  affect  shaken  evils  unworthy  significance  modified  miracle  lieu  peasant  considerably  observing  conveyed  resemblance  extend  riches  personally  morality  rebellion  thread  dumb  inclination  forbidden  copper  differences  sailor  requested  alfred  response  promoting  imperial  blank  purity  victor  bending  solemnly  twenty four  minor  del  crimson  republic  teachers  ma'am  danced  bargain  dealt  fatigue  telephone  cents  whip  adams  dislike  witnessed  infantry  acres  checked  countrymen  enemy's  companies  normal  shirt  addresses  introduce  sofa  mothers  sweep  conversion  sketch  african  deserved  answering  virtuous  persian  anyway  thief  driver  retain  constructed  daniel  ut  

 

philadelphia  conspicuous  channel  nobility  edith  berlin  editing  cambridge  declaration  guards  personality  smallest  excess  separation  disgust  ha  accomplish  speeches  herbert  convent  rightly  suspended  reform  mob  thirst  unnecessary  treasures  asks  viewed  designs  gleam  threatening  palm  missouri  filling  quoth  fur  fortnight  holes  addressing  frightful  encourage  speaker  tribute  procure  frankly  recommended  relieve  intentions  unjust  legislation  project  threshold  merits  morrow  traces  induce  spear  inward  pupils  corresponding  fairy  conclude  clung  neat  lucky  lap  session  torture  damp  ridge  spoil  liable  swords  hearty  bc  abraham  thoughtful  traveller  chains  favorable  tin  imp  strongest  horace  dependent  couch  bills  warrant  complaint  endeavour  sails  dined  convention  guarded  angle  widely  illinois  charlotte  endeavoured  


 

ardent  cow  mill  victims  prejudice  foremost  map  probability  porch  lieutenant  surprising  fountain  sustained  appropriate  ford  clara  assisted  lewis  rejoice  extending  marvellous  clothed  jew  collar  bands  confident  hasty  nigh  organ  prose  privileges  selection  inquiries  codes  replace  saint  districts  deliberately  awe  beforehand  strife  released  compare  beer  retorted  relate  cheerfully  pistol  presume  velvet  wretch  susan  pennsylvania  stirring  righteousness  missing  fain  facing  fashionable  producing  peoples  positively  reasoning  gravity  disturb  sermon  exchanged  partner  brains  lowered  association  estates  abuse  flock  niece  languages  asserted  bodily  notions  oliver  faculty  cannon  thirteen  sailing  rings  smart  possessions  disciples  petty  widest  divisions  prudent  caution  justify  awhile  boxes  manuscript  cigar  warrior  impressions  

 

aught  lifting  inaccurate  tidings  friday  liquid  staying  concept  creek  lo  brush  download  specially  cream  meetings  jump  unwilling  adapted  practised  combat  subdued  jewish  innumerable  blowing  extra  civilized  invented  japan  pitch  cliff  crowned  portions  awkward  horrid  pulling  appreciate  communicated  kentucky  jury  encountered  attacks  monster  simon  maintaining  sites  frozen  invariably  dies  survive  literally  consolation  m  phenomena  pot  ellen  briefly  rice  planned  barbara  respected  sublime  dropping  guy  behaviour  desolate  penny  adopt  replaced  revenue  formats  hired  regularly  infringement  curtains  eagerness  helping  investigation  constitutional  insist  occurs  fools  inheritance  latest  leap  games  apple  visiting  travellers  experiments  hasn't  pupil  enjoying  totally  twisted  discuss  firing  background  subscribe  tenderly  transcribe  

 

descend  differ  majesty's  avail  disaster  bet  periodic  bull  entertainment  computers  cursed  raw  fulfilled  georgia  virus  log  skies  scotch  embraced  hospitality  faintly  solomon  robbed  cart  influences  ascended  incidents  childish  robe  aboard  resembling  reflect  dominion  dreary  serving  complexion  engage  tents  herd  attain  collect  disclaims  pan  relatives  borrowed  convert  outline  blown  comprehend  peasants  opera  assault  deceive  doctrines  representatives  dedicated  struggled  officials  hiding  paths  backs  prominently  prices  procured  mourning  compliment  heights  approval  gasped  breadth  withdraw  tune  compassion  polished  latitude  dishes  parent  contrived  delicacy  projected  akin  f  betray  traced  resentment  indemnify  pseud  sacrifices  disguise  transcription  document  neighbour  squire  punish  bars  glittering  tossed  block  lots  worldly  

 

muscles  elbow  obligation  trifling  decline  attachment  ambitious  filename  artists  bloom  holiday  brute  repair  fist  recollect  eagle  honorable  significant  barren  functions  guided  dense  fiction  viz  adds  rows  recommend  suspicious  resulting  seventy  shillings  educational  duly  governed  scripture  upwards  sworn  nicholas  horn  brook  fund  vienna  lodge  infinitely  clergyman  marshal  ruled  fiercely  portuguese  costume  pit  disorder  sheer  exalted  fare  applause  chaucer  remind  binary  packed  pillow  jersey  abbey  nowhere  anyhow  agitated  marching  catching  el  grasped  arrow  tend  carved  fitting  bonds  instructed  elaborate  corpse  bewildered  essence  positions  emily  edited  continues  harold  elevation  realm  debts  glancing  shops  complained  loyalty  coin  clad  staircase  documents  interpreted  th  extremity  accord  

 

sally  lace  tremble  exile  gospel  mechanical  successfully  scholar  wonders  arab  temperament  expressing  fred  trap  spots  awaiting  potatoes  likeness  harbour  proofs  jolly  contributed  wits  generosity  ruler  lawrence  cake  lamps  crazy  sincerity  entertain  madame  sir  faculties  hesitate  deepest  seventeen  lordship  greeting  feminine  monstrous  tongues  barely  d  mansion  facility  praised  warranties  sarah  happier  indicating  rob  gigantic  honey  ladder  ending  wales  swallowed  sunny  knelt  tyranny  decree  stake  divide  dreaming  proclaimed  dignified  tread  mines  viewing  defense  oldest  incredible  bidding  brick  arch  everlasting  elect  sprung  harder  winding  deductible  magistrate  respective  liquor  imitation  shy  perished  prime  studying  eighty  hebrew  unfortunately  licensed  fog  coloured  bits  consult  moves  r  


 

warn  taylor  vile  depended  phil  legend  locations  shallow  doom  dreaded  encouragement  impatiently  scent  varieties  irregular  battles  compass  neighbouring  bliss  harvest  promotion  stove  faithfully  anthony  excellence  transfer  awaited  heathen  poetic  consulted  illustrated  gilbert  br  fundamental  bundle  rebel  cultivation  joys  rigid  tragic  review  representing  flowed  brows  whereupon  terribly  melted  venerable  towers  cooking  mustn't  suspicions  old fashioned  oppressed  australia  friend's  revolt  swell  improve  williams  describes  goddess  wreck  tennessee  convince  sentences  bowl  radiant  prussia  westward  indignant  refined  unseen  illustration  pertaining  swamp  austrian  saxon  congregation  nerve  undertaking  disclaimer  characteristics  stare  specimens  ascertain  pledge  earn  warfare  supposing  subsequently  attending  angrily  select  animated  industrial  hurriedly  manhood  quantities  interpretation  

 

dressing  rejoiced  edinburgh  catherine  challenge  produces  forbid  gang  boiled  shouts  so called  theme  thankful  admission  enters  elevated  frenchman  pool  terrified  lads  persisted  conference  equality  genus  didst  newly  generals  surroundings  sorrows  occasioned  invasion  workmen  monks  sends  turkish  discretion  pattern  reveal  endured  resolve  columbia  preach  exceeding  ringing  triumphant  defiance  errand  woke  grandmother  weighed  wool  orleans  communicate  strikes  promising  scenery  righteous  essentially  oppose  joyous  specimen  doctors  eloquent  manager  organs  sticks  drag  haunted  chorus  rational  crop  processing  accurate  wolf  adorned  sheets  resort  refusal  bond  vicinity  preacher  sympathetic  casting  opens  prophets  horns  warmly  salary  continuous  satan  continual  defended  breaks  workers  lantern  balls  rod  blaze  examining  naples  

 

peculiarly  vegetables  ingenious  excite  howard  horseback  re use  louisiana  farmers  wildly  mouths  carpet  sadness  customary  circles  aren't  wonderfully  max  juan  successor  allied  ceiling  confirmation  glances  diamonds  goal  representations  cash  vacant  antiquity  despise  lawn  they'll  appealed  turkey  texts  neighbor  spreading  discharged  phrases  ultimate  tastes  submission  entry  rachel  blush  monument  hardy  thorough  ein  ecclesiastical  fertile  exciting  captive  severity  considerations  shew  faster  louise  grandeur  winning  solely  globe  malice  echoed  lodging  conservative  throng  prosperous  whistle  floated  transferred  declaring  reckoned  cheese  bite  thoughtfully  breach  enthusiastic  cars  downstairs  allowing  invite  adjoining  dusk  cathedral  truths  plague  sandy  boil  caroline  beautifully  inhabited  tomorrow  exclamation  finishing  shocked  escort  forgetting  hanged  

 

hats  mirth  uncomfortable  connecticut  bows  pierced  harbor  tricks  rubbed  apparatus  mysteries  honesty  negroes  concerns  wander  assert  ceremonies  sacrificed  utterance  dismay  fright  rail  reflections  crops  pushing  proves  jimmy  pathetic  imperfect  haughty  navy  fortress  hurrying  x  blessings  attempting  insects  selling  appreciation  suppressed  acquire  offensive  ripe  dresses  reigned  coldly  candles  km  sixth  blazing  youngest  mask  florida  lecture  parlor  decidedly  whereby  gordon  reverend  successive  perception  buffalo  sire  quitted  keys  develop  function  morals  damned  vexed  d  pouring  bullet  excessive  bind  identical  cliffs  tools  byron  mexican  piety  superstition  git  substantial  bulk  prevail  wiser  preaching  prolonged  annoyed  westminster  splendour  remembering  richmond  upset  cab  bunch  pencil  subjected  vegetable  

 

exhibit  emerged  cooked  hay  kansas  gale  preached  arnold  trousers  debate  dated  tumult  corruption  summons  comrade  eternity  hears  lingered  propriety  stillness  partial  welcomed  cabinet  proceeds  vow  quaint  soup  beef  rests  slay  surgeon  irresistible  sealed  repeating  needn't  allowance  undertaken  treachery  posts  borders  attendant  unite  murderer  owners  nm  sweeping  unconsciously  blade  saviour  theories  graham  behaved  pleaded  spy  possesses  lawful  tommy  seasons  withdrawn  reckless  factory  shades  gossip  seventh  attendance  robes  journal  systems  dryden  maine  token  intimacy  abstract  machines  bestow  chanced  locks  honestly  legitimate  accent  symptoms  votes  ragged  thursday  manifested  fidelity  swinging  descending  sincerely  bred  whereof  indies  novels  league  failing  succeeding  santa  approve  cautiously  miller  


 

afflicted  lodgings  petition  traffic  sparkling  limb  architecture  disposal  carriages  crack  kindred  naught  ornament  slew  steward  fantastic  evolution  patiently  reverse  survey  dug  amuse  stretching  isaac  forthwith  contemporary  foliage  receives  scandal  donors  deliberate  influenced  intolerable  hearth  symbol  governments  repaired  pleasantly  homage  victorious  columbus  recovery  defined  attendants  modesty  diana  washing  pavement  unnatural  decisive  wisely  precise  negative  occurrence  snatched  shaft  linked  festival  exclusively  jove  wickedness  visions  maggie  rosy  carelessly  stem  corporation  dec  feeding  allen  cows  schemes  preference  urge  husbands  labours  shrill  exercises  sovereignty  reduce  distressed  clearing  removal  dean  scottish  assertion  accessible  comedy  flush  code  philosophers  adequate  vaguely  treason  hunter  chambers  split  yielding  newsletter  snake  

 

pub  historian  ass  intensity  democracy  battery  draws  netherlands  creed  liking  luke  tyrant  strove  attraction  slaughter  dismal  deposited  assent  cups  concert  downward  canal  evenings  wax  detective  fancies  spoiled  revolver  murray  earned  analysis  finer  paces  roaring  prompt  paperwork  wherefore  emphasis  sharing  delayed  inherited  bronze  waking  garment  redistributing  wholesome  remorse  plato  morris  stooped  dew  monk  thrill  hue  exclusive  funds  porter  uncommon  dash  strained  confounded  swim  strip  middle aged  ultimately  team  missionary  esteemed  tracks  envelope  whoever  expensive  headquarters  cherished  brandy  startling  homer  talks  acute  cigarette  motor  embarrassed  janet  volunteer  offspring  network  reaches  indispensable  plane  reaction  regiments  g  sums  partially  prejudices  proudly  baggage  terrace  deaf  allusion  

 

grip  juice  isabel  resigned  humility  benjamin  blast  ministry  sexual  nile  diameter  troop  onward  crowds  marrying  tightly  sullen  brutal  axe  holmes  penalty  tops  diamond  boards  corridor  endowed  strengthened  cells  proportions  alternate  echo  restraint  trials  reads  identity  headed  softened  quivering  stages  sway  poetical  objected  screen  professed  dirt  ascertained  era  wider  ambassador  constituted  breed  interference  eyebrows  shapes  afar  consist  acceptance  displays  flashing  hunted  beauties  lazy  shrewd  extravagant  momentary  cordial  engineer  rapidity  nov  halt  alternative  devils  stamp  compact  whites  breathless  encoding  drift  disappear  roared  revived  counter  venus  imaginary  diminished  honoured  th  despatched  objections  ray  climbing  attract  astonishing  competition  suggestions  ink  oft  crystal  shower  diseases  

 

ferdinand  obedient  draught  wondrous  await  armour  massive  bottles  kin  cellar  falsehood  pillars  edgar  philosophical  martha  worlds  memorable  jacques  detected  stealing  noisy  henceforth  cicero  laden  frost  device  glare  touches  senate  lasting  communion  transport  constantinople  coffin  eventually  johnny  enclosed  forgiveness  awfully  clinging  darkened  contemplation  termed  manufacture  swallow  commonplace  nancy  resembled  she'd  labors  contracted  inscription  comfortably  indulge  indulgence  bravely  kneeling  yea  keenly  exhibition  agricultural  enlightened  quest  compliments  crest  extension  uneasiness  constitute  inflicted  lakes  swing  meadow  noblest  downloading  complex  controversy  freed  resignation  tempest  guidance  prospects  humbly  lined  serene  shrugged  honours  roughly  checks  remarkably  dainty  overhead  commencement  singularly  brightness  oppression  repeatedly  conspiracy  restrain  splendor  preservation  

 

pub  pepper  basin  creeping  matthew  publicly  percy  continuing  grove  calamity  pony  vigour  melody  profitable  descendants  hire  speculation  discoveries  accepts  drunken  candidate  principally  worried  obstinate  hasten  foreigners  elderly  overwhelmed  instincts  telegraph  russell  university  ghastly  patron  varying  barbarous  celestial  t'  patriotism  modify  earnestness  exertion  fox  refusing  horsemen  inspection  stations  grieved  louder  bursting  regretted  mournful  pursuing  traitor  associations  cautious  foundations  stamped  prior  undertook  telegram  beggar  chimney  complicated  davis  striving  magistrates  converse  graces  wiped  oars  apology  scared  imprisonment  eastward  substitute  yahweh  handful  usage  lodged  of  villain  banished  restoration  serpent  hedge  k  jurisdiction  captains  settlers  gaining  valiant  primary  storms  beam  victoria  tour  prophecy  spectacles  obsolete  

 

buying  shepherd  wells  harriet  exaggerated  heated  penetrated  travels  earl  hereditary  ali  supernatural  competent  piled  hostess  agriculture  boughs  urgent  gratified  suffice  ports  drifted  accuracy  deceased  circular  securing  possibilities  rhine  alert  neighboring  democratic  quebec  bud  accounted  aided  augustus  blanket  hail  pretence  beams  andy  pig  shaped  oven  rounded  ivory  northward  isolated  policeman  aug  conventional  babylon  dusty  bishops  complaints  stripped  plead  hinder  vo  cord  flows  personage  classical  alongside  wrongs  extract  rewarded  lungs  lighter  kisses  serves  pint  forgiven  sternly  proclamation  realised  pipes  arising  pitched  tube  observer  smote  avenue  elephant  burke  footing  statesman  rebels  nails  wears  doomed  edges  esther  indiana  affecting  stormy  bee  bury  efficient  mix  

 

supporting  actor  disturbance  sweat  executive  seemingly  tenth  blossoms  ethel  folds  painfully  polish  shudder  oe  roofs  comparative  begging  imposing  notable  invested  imprisoned  mute  amy  cage  esq  pg  cured  cargo  prof  negotiations  assented  jail  skilful  ideals  conferred  resulted  illusion  torment  troublesome  crowns  feb  repentance  blankets  proprietor  uncertainty  concentrated  mediterranean  covers  scream  compromise  respectful  chariot  ammunition  bonnet  secondary  persia  persecution  lesser  assistant  saluted  fits  indulged  springing  cane  fold  boundary  valued  she'll  rugged  aloft  thieves  parlour  indebted  tons  processes  dave  moore  argue  dearly  logic  panic  restrained  lb  vainly  weariness  enlarged  franklin  tasted  rural  torrent  resolute  refrain  kissing  gorgeous  meets  circulation  passionately  inasmuch  unexpectedly  stress  


 

consumption  groan  suits  sustain  hosts  crash  resemble  epoch  quote  lacking  nominally  choked  aristocracy  granite  gradual  delights  hurled  joyful  sack  slumber  detached  snapped  shadowy  accompanying  annoyance  crush  needle  repent  phenomenon  execute  canst  smoked  greet  monarchy  behave  richly  controlled  strive  endeavor  barrier  canadian  curve  politeness  flora  rely  flank  convenience  courteous  logs  lamb  effectually  robinson  logical  shan't  dimly  withered  diet  praises  fulfil  mantle  ne'er  discussing  chicken  judicial  consistent  ridicule  as  reins  barrel  distrust  trunks  verily  hunters  feather  desperately  goodly  habitual  voluntary  luncheon  eighteenth  exertions  expert  coolly  mistakes  tedious  contemplated  clark  jacket  gleaming  shrank  swimming  kent  perplexed  impressive  universally  displeasure  maids  rates  underneath  expedient  

 

emma  impress  bees  bounded  worshipped  resisted  provincial  popularity  baker  shattered  merciful  olive  tramp  compensation  ernest  martial  genial  syria  conjecture  van  waiter  detained  items  promote  delaware  covenant  nought  interposed  seizing  sinner  vigor  devote  decorated  sentimental  yoke  properties  warlike  perilous  threats  kindled  lays  hostility  dragging  mare  regulations  obstacle  sage  destitute  pays  sleepy  dublin  jonathan  posterity  they'd  nod  mason  patriotic  plantation  pitiful  foster  requisite  expose  oxen  patch  anderson  stuart  interruption  lance  payable  definition  birthday  thumb  wolves  hammer  overwhelming  intensely  revolutionary  fragrant  bleeding  sheltered  circuit  dominions  sales  energetic  insignificant  repetition  we'd  amazing  trains  skirts  tip  trivial  kick  tended  rejoicing  dig  pet  skull  lectures  ness  

 

threat  legislature  plunder  removing  jungle  ghosts  numbered  famine  palaces  sorrowful  improvements  coleridge  fuller  asp  blocks  darted  shrine  heel  typical  throws  fortunately  recognise  fuel  th  tranquil  frown  destination  plunge  moor  pin  mars  associate  here's  owen  th  arabic  vicious  framed  banquet  expressive  instinctively  lighting  scanning  subordinate  jaws  patent  courtyard  gulf  destroying  detailed  regulating  closet  compel  inland  excepting  pretext  legislative  stationed  rash  margin  champion  settling  billion  shorter  betwixt  admiring  morgan  nick  chemical  chapters  worthless  aristocratic  nan  especial  hon  attentive  maintenance  charlie  explanatory  differently  furiously  pulse  scanty  flee  admiral  clause  resume  compound  pilot  growled  charmed  imitate  happening  knot  rags  mock  majestic  messages  prussian  suspense  


 

clare  relationship  skirt  agency  arisen  grin  unusually  michigan  hoarse  mills  intently  dining  demonstration  depression  lain  expectations  joining  weekly  trenches  technical  vehicle  aimed  borrow  flattering  portugal  prodigious  scope  vegetation  switzerland  arkansas  swelling  fortified  favoured  salute  topic  blushed  superb  strengthen  confidential  crow  shawl  sunrise  sings  coats  sturdy  dissolved  lifetime  dispersed  sergeant  contribute  strode  brigade  verdict  they've  honors  panting  females  richest  attribute  brighter  hook  discontent  orderly  airs  tiger  messengers  penetrate  sabbath  identification  holiness  crooked  housekeeper  productions  prescribed  rector  spark  sleeve  honored  tame  highway  alabama  edmund  militia  nobleman  energies  spacious  tearing  affliction  photograph  ally  hampshire  ascent  ditch  fishes  jupiter  rubbing  tract  standards  afore  ribbon  

 

cecilia  oregon  integrity  plus  transparent  farms  pulpit  ropes  nineteen  rescued  counting  perfume  socrates  hounds  solicited  bother  fascinating  qualified  desolation  essay  rains  renew  odious  assuredly  suggests  rider  loneliness  pond  activities  dazzling  leaping  squadron  bowing  novelty  wrist  keeper  homeward  alexandria  finely  li  efficiency  marvel  tranquillity  agnes  charities  spenser  condemn  elephants  elders  julian  tries  nd  sweetly  endurance  bags  reared  jaw  unique  navigation  inevitably  admirably  sect  drum  poles  verge  piercing  sanction  russians  forlorn  approbation  organic  stanley  allegiance  bin  expressly  ingenuity  dispose  stained  theology  withal  duration  fundraising  adj  collecting  weigh  sweetest  float  consul  monastery  raging  publish  knocking  precaution  privately  aaron  endeavored  insight  definitely  stature  troy  

 

miriam  judah  oblige  urging  shift  mould  courses  countless  associates  hymn  rapture  tonight  trumpet  parker  entrusted  firmness  comic  breeding  ken  questioning  factor  monuments  loveliness  handled  communities  saloon  stumbled  witch  confronted  traveling  seamen  backed  profoundly  gladness  pomp  mess  practise  sanctuary  superstitious  casual  iowa  analyzed  historic  bored  shrink  judging  treating  expenditure  encouraging  diplomatic  forcing  studio  exposure  crude  compilation  vermont  eve  ascend  unbroken  apollo  countess  binding  exceed  frail  hans  champagne  shuddered  carter  mule  inserted  parson  rascal  inspire  banner  divorce  treacherous  nineteenth  invalid  weaker  organizations  bolt  ticket  backwards  captivity  lame  provoked  vein  lists  gallop  communications  dagger  passive  shoe  thrice  corrected  mystic  infancy  foam  keith  tavern  

 

fraud  th  cradle  rifles  vigorously  censure  gentleness  jr  sobbing  monotonous  explosion  catastrophe  respectfully  wearied  cats  blamed  needful  fireplace  gravel  affords  discovering  jar  selfishness  tolerably  clerks  ark  moist  wid  sauce  prompted  exceptions  bullets  writ  bruce  insolent  moisture  thompson  furnace  healing  fewer  deem  apron  humiliation  punctuation  rolls  doe  rotten  richer  swiss  behavior  nowadays  pamphlet  loan  beads  divers  unreasonable  realise  lust  ah  annually  detach  gaily  shares  gifted  planet  feverish  resurrection  saul  consecrated  enforced  vincent  shelf  fan  fluid  brightly  damsel  gabriel  kid  frantic  neatly  anon  ascribed  insane  tropical  th  milan  hardened  overthrow  phase  achievement  immortality  obscurity  assumption  discern  hopeful  humorous  composure  turf  poland  dame  


 

missionaries  orator  perpetually  arbitrary  ecstasy  retirement  pronounce  authorized  familiarity  nl  hastings  clubs  reconciled  grievous  mercury  elegance  chivalry  luminous  beseech  benevolent  confided  dances  perplexity  escaping  terrific  companionship  commence  daisy  parliament  th  creep  pleading  disdain  pm  sympathies  guides  emergency  parcel  suicide  replies  drawer  contribution  supposition  vii  weren't  link  homely  pluck  ruling  patrick  statesmen  hannah  printing  joshua  synonymous  sinister  advocate  destructive  environment  blossom  bridle  yon  waistcoat  extends  confirm  listing  solemnity  projects  reporter  deprive  detachment  infernal  traversed  moss  skilled  announce  hateful  fugitive  gothic  coolness  insurrection  cum  med  coachman  expend  stepping  julius  resign  despatch  excluded  reject  tough  plea  roy  fragment  lacked  wordsworth  balcony  darker  mac  

 

nevada  christopher  fork  flatter  iniquity  meditation  disastrous  stain  patches  hints  ordained  drinks  whipped  burial  matt  employee  employer  hypothesis  steed  width  sweden  transaction  victories  devout  outrage  vary  attorney  rouse  doubled  sidney  schooner  flaming  offend  sheriff  encamped  magnificence  vent  politely  vines  flags  italians  necessities  austin  nobler  accusation  impulses  packet  shabby  irritated  dakota  industrious  classic  ranch  ascending  cruelly  happiest  antonio  accuse  insulted  bridges  players  sixteenth  solicitation  embarked  idol  odds  aims  illuminated  enchanted  adversary  pie  reflecting  pension  luxurious  pigs  choir  tumbled  conqueror  irritation  verb  monkey  acceptable  dynasty  accurately  divinity  signature  heretofore  hazard  dora  sq  stead  attire  fling  marine  occupations  soothing  devised  singer  spaces  emerson  

 

disguised  antique  orthodox  poisoned  dove  gratification  sydney  electricity  alien  sorely  cracked  supremacy  summon  depressed  sexes  offerings  pledged  irony  recourse  tortured  thickly  correspondent  sounding   sombre  brushed  reasonably  th  duel  reluctantly  implies  cable  ridden  acre  grieve  inquiring  colonists  addison  republican  illustrate  tim  liverpool  gilded  clumsy  satin  displeased  odor  clearer  prairie  hudson  feudal  flint  easter  freshness  nursery  explanations  adoption  reluctance  crosses  blushing  imported  notorious  equipped  sinful  starving  eugene  bedside  sovereigns  abrupt  excused  injure  incessant  correctly  drooping  adored  embroidered  pasture  pillar  import  founder  torch  vault  worm  ay  bravery  confinement  trusting  butler  rattle  transported  estimation  edit  gotten  cuts  headlong  outfit  insolence  secrecy  thereupon  unlucky  

 

eighth  valour  grammar  relaxed  mentions  adjacent  knives  attacking  exceptional  recollections  deposit  establishing  muddy  arches  aspects  senior  fragrance  colonial  penetrating  refinement  te  yacht  intelligible  stray  forcibly  jenny  superficial  tends  identified  wan  choosing  frighten  grotesque  reprinted  tutor  contributing  welsh  gaiety  besieged  robbery  transmitted  swam  consequential  slid  stony  donald  gratify  heavier  confidently  mabel  demon  treatise  mechanically  batteries  trading  cock  pilgrimage  extinct  idleness  sicily  merrily  excursion  handling  utah  eminence  lump  boyhood  montana  superfluous  wee  dome  shivering  accidental  thickness  darwin  continuance  fixing  harris  rustic  cheered  vernon  premises  delivery  nodding  snowy  curved  productive  discouraged  variations  shilling  swollen  miraculous  stubborn  belgium  drives  jerome  orchard  persuasion  invaded  alps  

 

ungrateful  insensible  muscle  madrid  flanders  cultivate  involuntarily  speedy  variation  marian  harp  peaks  daybreak  magnitude  precautions  rub  requiring  coral  grapes  fairest  locality  opponent  bondage  beans  cowardly  grandson  leo  gertrude  nail  protecting  hospitable  proving  benevolence  brussels  civilisation  mounting  desiring  rushes  precision  watchful  harness  perchance  forbade  channels  indication  zealous  tact  seventeenth  theodore  stating  toast  dreadfully  judith  asterisk  virgil  edifice  swelled  accomplishment  sundry  reckoning  mouse  prostrate  helm  slim  whistling  syllable  handwriting  commissioners  lime  spur  unfit  gen  relish  reduction  sown  venetian  cordially  hush  breasts  slipping  pat  arabian  dialogue  forwards  entreat  fascination  belly  neutral  grasping  diligence  disgusted  retiring  strokes  sob  vine  compose  valentine  harvey  icy  inconvenience  

 

v  pots  dimensions  abused  armor  detect  contradiction  banker  infamous  powerless  passenger  crust  historians  disclaim  norway  peculiarities  sting  simultaneously  watches  cong  episode  achieve  populace  sherman  incense  rebecca  jordan  persistent  wisconsin  ho  ta  fruitful  scoundrel  coasts  starve  denmark  scots  consultation  habitation  goat  howling  tailor  flourish  trifles  dashing  disappearance  sour  practicable  shameful  inviting  criminals  leisurely  accumulated  audible  topics  expends  radiance  underline  parade  spoils  helmet  consternation  expenditures  impose  originator  pa  unequal  wooded  enduring  ox  valet  proclaim  carl  impossibility  lydia  territories  deference  ravine  geoffrey  blanche  accommodation  boyish  spray  theological  anonymous  injurious  formally  sports  ab  scales  wyoming  discontinue  calf  manual  disturbing  potent  anticipation  melt  tilde  thames  

 

grade  mischievous  pang  pathos  alternately  brisk  stool  justification  foreigner  endeavouring  satire  al  delete  masculine  spies  umbrella  transportation  yell  remnant  boot  ignored  thrilling  ale  mineral  goose  nebraska  truce  lastly  airy  sketches  groves  col  th  comprehension  cling  duck  abyss  alaska  baffled  planning  abominable  aversion  drawings  customers  weird  stewart  traveled  alan  incessantly  flattery  director  improbable  moderation  awakening  males  pairs  temporal  con  nicely  lapse  vitality  soap  patriot  malicious  eyed  pirates  enforce  doll  briskly  sez  skeleton  comprehensive  buttons  crushing  personages  threaten  nuts  undone  wright  frankness  hides  progressive  rogers  villa  aristotle  resource  irs  confine  sewing  co  congratulate  walt  reconcile  insurance  terminated  dusky  appoint  pearl  thrilled  gains  



equipment  temple  calls  earlier  license  visited  en  consent  sufficiently  natives  wound  laughter  contained  perceived  scattered  whence  rushed  chiefly  bold  anywhere  witness  foolish  helped  kitchen  sell  anybody  self  extremely  treatment  throat  dreams  patient  speed  growth  quantity  latin  immense  conclusion  computer  affected  severe  excuse  triumph  origin  joseph  slept  eternal  thine  audience  pages  sounds  swift  limited  wings  stepped  services  library  remaining  containing  base  confusion  win  maid  charming  editions  attended  softly  reality  performed  glorious  likewise  site  sail  frightened  acquainted  unhappy  feared  article  prisoners  store  adopted  shalt  remark  cook  thousands  pause  inclined  convinced  band  valuable  hence  desert  effects  kiss  plant  ice  ball  stick  absolute  readily  


 

behold  fierce  argument  observe  blessed  bosom  rage  striking  discovery  creatures  shouted  guilty  related  setting  forgot  punishment  gun  slightly  articles  police  mysterious  extended  confess  shade  murder  emotion  destruction  wondered  increasing  hide  expedition  horror  local  expenses  ignorant  doctrine  generous  range  host  wet  cloud  mystery  ed  waste  changes  possess  consciousness  february  trembling  disease  formerly  spend  production  source  mankind  universal  deck  sees  habits  estate  aunt  reign  humble  compliance  delay  shining  reported  hers  unfortunate  midnight  listening  flower  hero  accomplished  doth  classes  thanks  banks  philosophy  belong  finger  comfortable  market  cap  waves  woman's  glanced  troubled  difficulties  picked  european  purposes  somewhere  delighted  pushed  press  household  fleet  baby  region  


 

lately  uttered  exact  image  ages  murmured  melancholy  suspicion  bowed  refuse  elizabeth  staff  liability  we'll  enjoyed  stretched  gaze  belonged  ashamed  reward  meal  blame  nodded  status  opinions  indicate  poem  savage  arise  voyage  misery  guests  painted  attend  afford  donate  job  proceed  loves  forehead  regret  plainly  risk  ad  lighted  angel  rapid  distinct  doubtless  properly  wit  fame  singular  error  utmost  methods  reputation  appeal  she's  w  strongly  margaret  lack  breaking  dawn  violence  fatal  render  career  design  displayed  gets  commercial  forgive  lights  agreeable  suggestion  utter  sheep  resolution  spare  patience  domestic  concluded  'tis  farm  reference  chinese  exist  corn  approaching  alike  mounted  jane  issue  key  providing  majority  measures  towns  

 

flame  boston  dared  ignorance  reduced  occasionally  y  weakness  furnished  china  priests  flying  cloth  gazed  profit  fourth  bell  hitherto  benefit  movements  eagerly  acted  urged  ascii  disposed  electronically  atmosphere  chapter  begged  helen  hole  invited  borne  departed  catholic  files  reasonable  sugar  replacement  sigh  humanity  thrust  frame  opposition  disk  haste  lonely  artist  knight  quarters  charm  substance  rolled  email  flung  celebrated  division  slavery  verse  decision  probable  painful  governor  forever  turns  branch  ocean  rear  leader  delightful  stared  boats  keen  disposition  senses  occasions  readable  beloved  inches  bones  enthusiasm  materials  luck  derived  managed  community  apparent  preserved  magnificent  hurry  scheme  oil  thence  reaching  dim  wretched  hanging  pipe  useless  nevertheless  

 

print  smooth  solid  pursued  necessarily  build  attempted  centuries  eggs  equivalent  hastily  burned  you'd  recent  oh  travel  cries  noon  crying  generations  located  cabin  announcement  britain  compared  handed  cease  smaller  circumstance  tent  frequent  alarm  nervous  beast  what's  aloud  independent  gates  distinction  essential  observation  stronger  recovered  belonging  loving  masters  writers  cf  permanent  mortal  stern  gratitude  preserve  burden  aspect  millions  merry  knife  dread  clever  applicable  district  shadows  jim  silk  failure  links  cent  sentiment  amid  profits  agent  finds  russia  bade  russian  desperate  union  imagined  contempt  raising  lords  hell  separated  grant  seriously  tribes  hit  enormous  defective  conviction  secured  mixed  insisted  wooden  prefer  prayers  fever  selected  daughters  

 

treat  warning  flew  speaks  developed  impulse  slipped  ours  johnson  mistaken  damages  ambition  resumed  christmas  yield  ideal  schools  confirmed  descended  rush  falls  deny  calculated  correct  perform  hadn't  somehow  accordingly  stayed  acquired  counsel  distress  sins  notion  discussion  constitution  anne  hundreds  instrument  firmly  actions  steady  remarks  empire  elements  idle  pen  entering  online  africa  permit  th'  tide  vol  leaned  college  maintain  sovereign  tail  generation  crowded  fears  nights  limitation  tied  horrible  cat  displaying  port  male  experienced  opposed  treaty  contents  rested  mode  poured  les  occur  seeking  practically  abandoned  reports  eleven  sank  begins  founded  brings  trace  instinct  collected  scotland  characteristic  chose  cheerful  tribe  costs  threatened  arrangement  western  


 

sang  beings  sam  pressure  politics  sorts  shelter  rude  scientific  revealed  winds  riding  scenes  shake  industry  claims  pp  merit  profession  lamp  interview  territory  sleeping  sex  coffee  devotion  thereof  creation  trail  romans  supported  requires  fathers  prospect  obey  alexander  shone  operation  northern  nurse  profound  hungry  scott  sisters  assure  exceedingly  match  wrath  continually  rest  gifts  folly  chain  uniform  debt  teaching  venture  execution  shoes  mood  crew  perceive  accounts  eating  multitude  declare  yard  o'er  astonishment  version  vague  odd  grateful  nearest  infinite  elsewhere  copying  apartment  activity  wives  parted  security  cared  sensible  owing  martin  saturday  cottage  jews  leaning  capacity  joe  settle  referred  francis  holder  involved  sunshine  dutch  council  

 

princes  ate  examination  steel  strangers  beheld  test  noted  slightest  widow  charity  realized  element  shed  errors  communication  reflection  attacked  organization  maintained  restored  folks  concealed  accordance  heavens  star  examined  deeds  wordforms  somebody  incident  oath  guest  bar  row  poverty  bottle  prevented  bless  stir  intense  completed  quarrel  touching  inner  available  fix  resistance  unusual  deed  derive  hollow  suspected  contains  sighed  province  deserted  establishment  vote  muttered  thither  oxford  cavalry  lofty  endure  succeed  leg  bid  alice  hated  civilization  u s  acting  landed  christians  passions  interior  scarce  lightly  disturbed  rev  supreme  hang  notwithstanding  shock  exception  offering  display  strain  drank  confined  o  exhausted  poets  sounded  aim  critical  jerusalem  directions  negro  


 

fearful  standard  studied  bag  n  buildings  consequences  commenced  deeper  repeat  driving  beasts  track  rid  holds  residence  steadily  intimate  drinking  swear  treasure  fun  throwing  apt  enterprise  queer  seed  tower  runs  defend  favourite  desires  heavily  assembled  existed  depends  poems  hesitated  stuff  section  settlement  staring  sole  roads  plate  mexico  overcome  pains  performing  dwell  grounds  taxes  marble  recently  tones  ability  awake  walter  wave  shaking  folk  possibility  butter  fury  marched  moses  writes  issued  sailed  instructions  hatred  pursuit  pull  furniture  additions  hid  rope  vi  adventure  royalty  vanished  arts  elder  signal  wanting  supplied  feast  safely  burn  describe  references  lesson  annual  card  passes  application  intelligent  county  beaten  presents  

 

format  flow  sixty  scale  damage  marks  obtaining  moreover  commerce  startled  southern  consequently  outer  belongs  ben  wrought  average  naked  conducted  rivers  songs  obvious  foundation  concern  ceremony  magic  campaign  hunting  carolina  liberal  whisper  largely  commonly  torn  exists  contributions  hunt  teacher  christianity  lawyer  operations  detail  shortly  caesar  wondering  leaders  blessing  princess  he'd  altar  tenderness  tiny  web  cardinal  sharply  regiment  chest  distinctly  purple  creating  gather  depth  indignation  performance  election  prosperity  gloomy  conception  clerk  decide  drunk  victim  reflected  pour  preceding  individuals  gazing  absurd  lift  gesture  armies  limbs  manage  brethren  hugh  plays  hastened  dragged  motive  whatsoever  pointing  verses  pronounced  exchange  definite  emperor  tendency  remote  finish  flag  

 

boots  enabled  administration  denied  churches  rarely  earnestly  considering  previously  ugly  bears  signed  genuine  harmless  mingled  obedience  walks  training  badly  feed  central  contrast  relieved  romance  mississippi  structure  payment  pace  passages  succession  persuaded  sources  inquiry  inspired  angels  roll  wilt  inch  troubles  perfection  lee  wherever  owe  handle  advantages  trip  shoot  fortunate  newspaper  employment  fitted  refuge  misfortune  providence  owns  cutting  beard  stirred  tear  dan  resist  bob  depths  maiden  determine  commission  merchant  whereas  crossing  independence  lively  breeze  provinces  jean  virtues  conceived  relative  solitary  smell  wandering  thereby  eighteen  locked  provision  courts  eaten  historical  regarding  florence  preferred  pick  ruined  wherein  vanity  condemned  deliver  unexpected  desk  gross  lane  

 

happens  represent  billy  root  holland  mud  respectable  cleared  feels  fruits  testimony  milton  existing  bride  rang  ranks  responsibility  beating  disappointed  suitable  depend  judges  giant  grasp  arrive  simplicity  autumn  absent  legally  veil  gloom  doubtful  suspect  weapons  limits  determination  feeble  prophet  shak  gathering  basis  examine  corrupt  payments  returns  laying  prize  instances  greeks  d  they're  theatre  purchase  comparison  composition  rival  someone  realize  defeat  demands  foe  shared  consists  studies  balance  intercourse  id  forming  slender  coach  criminal  knocked  silly  humour  masses  indifferent  recall  occupation  discourse  keeps  regions  intervals  assist  novel  intellect  leads  hither  tales  sale  revenge  lucy  yonder  resources  jealous  we're  wheel  invitation  narrative  risen  burnt  

 

sentiments  inferior  amusement  marie  flash  recognize  swiftly  portrait  create  summoned  suggest  induced  conflict  fed  curse  disappointment  helpless  preparing  construction  lincoln  zeal  responsible  indicated  groups  positive  germans  attracted  vengeance  fort  club  cure  stout  missed  gracious  include  flood  satisfy  agony  respects  ventured  implied  maria  stupid  seas  spaniards  grain  enjoyment  wearing  indifference  conceal  horizon  pleasures  therein  precisely  canada  day's  assume  registered  estimate  steep  route  gardens  visitor  closer  harmony  non  thunder  wire  graceful  crept  greece  childhood  knee  saddle  supplies  weeping  mostly  paragraphs  unconscious  mutual  scorn  grows  external  agents  software  institutions  losing  universe  clock  attempts  instruction  injury  roots  receipt  jumped  dearest  sore  earliest  finest  enable  

 everything for their neighbor but they do not give a ruble each to
the collections for the poor and they intrigue the Astraea Lodge against the Manna Seekers and fuss about an authentic Scotch carpet
and a charter that nobody needs and the meaning of which the very man
who wrote it does not understand We all profess the Christian law
of forgiveness of injuries and love of our neighbors the law in honor
of which we have built in Moscow forty times forty churches--but
yesterday a deserter was knouted to death and a minister of that
same law of love and forgiveness a priest gave the soldier a cross
to kiss before his execution So thought Pierre and the whole of
this general deception which everyone accepts accustomed as he was to
it astonished him each time as if it were something new I
understand the deception and confusion he thought but how am I to tell them all that I see I have tried and have always found
that they too in the depths of their souls understand it as I do
and only try not to see it So it appears that it must be so! But I-
what is to become of me thought he He had the unfortunate
capacity many men especially Russians have of seeing and believing
in the possibility of goodness and truth but of seeing the evil and
falsehood of life too clearly to be able to take a serious part in it
Every sphere of work was connected in his eyes with evil and
deception Whatever he tried to be whatever he engaged in the evil
and falsehood of it repulsed him and blocked every path of activity
Yet he had to live and to find occupation It was too dreadful to be
under the burden of these insoluble problems so he abandoned
himself to any distraction in order to forget them He frequented
every kind of society drank much bought pictures engaged in
building and above all--read

He read and read everything that came to hand On coming home
while his valets were still taking off his things he picked up a book
and began to read From reading he passed to sleeping from sleeping
to gossip in drawing rooms of the Club from gossip to carousals and
women from carousals back to gossip reading and wine Drinking
became more and more a physical and also a moral necessity Though the
doctors warned him that with his corpulence wine was dangerous for
him he drank a great deal He was only quite at ease when having
poured several glasses of wine mechanically into his large mouth he
felt a pleasant warmth in his body an amiability toward all his
fellows and a readiness to respond superficially to every idea
without probing it deeply Only after emptying a bottle or two did
he feel dimly that the terribly tangled skein of life which previously
had terrified him was not as dreadful as he had thought He was always
conscious of some aspect of that skein as with a buzzing in his
head after dinner or supper he chatted or listened to conversation
or read But under the influence of wine he said to himself: It
doesnt matter Ill get it unraveled I have a solution ready but
have no time now--Ill think it all out later on! But the later on
never came

In the morning on an empty stomach all the old questions
appeared as insoluble and terrible as ever and Pierre hastily
picked up a book and if anyone came to see him he was glad

Sometimes he remembered how he had heard that soldiers in war when
entrenched under the enemys fire if they have nothing to do try
hard to find some occupation the more easily to bear the danger To
Pierre all men seemed like those soldiers seeking refuge from life:
some in ambition some in cards some in framing laws some in
women some in toys some in horses some in politics some in
sport some in wine and some in governmental affairs Nothing is
trivial and nothing is important its all the same--only to save
oneself from it as best one can thought Pierre Only not to see it
that dreadful it!





CHAPTER II


At the beginning of winter Prince Nicholas Bolkonski and his
daughter moved to Moscow At that time enthusiasm for the Emperor
Alexanders regime had weakened and a patriotic and anti-French
tendency prevailed there and this together with his past and his
intellect and his originality at once made Prince Nicholas
Bolkonski an object of particular respect to the Moscovites and the
center of the Moscow opposition to the government

The prince had aged very much that year He showed marked signs of
senility by a tendency to fall asleep forgetfulness of quite recent
events remembrance of remote ones and the childish vanity with which
he accepted the role of head of the Moscow opposition In spite of
this the old man inspired in all his visitors alike a feeling of
respectful veneration--especially of an evening when he came in to tea
in his old-fashioned coat and powdered wig and aroused by anyone
told his abrupt stories of the past or uttered yet more abrupt and
scathing criticisms of the present For them all that old-fashioned
house with its gigantic mirrors pre-Revolution furniture powdered
footmen and the stern shrewd old man (himself a relic of the past
century) with his gentle daughter and the pretty Frenchwoman who
were reverently devoted to him presented a majestic and agreeable
spectacle But the visitors did not reflect that besides the couple of
hours during which they saw their host there were also twenty-two
hours in the day during which the private and intimate life of the
house continued

Latterly that private life had become very trying for Princess Mary
There in Moscow she was deprived of her greatest pleasures--talks with
the pilgrims and the solitude which refreshed her at Bald Hills--and
she had none of the advantages and pleasures of city life She did not
go out into society everyone knew that her father would not let her
go anywhere without him and his failing health prevented his going
out himself so that she was not invited to dinners and evening
parties She had quite abandoned the hope of getting married She
saw the coldness and malevolence with which the old prince received
and dismissed the young men possible suitors who sometimes
appeared at their house She had no friends: during this visit to
Moscow she had been disappointed in the two who had been nearest to
her Mademoiselle Bourienne with whom she had never been able to be
quite frank had now become unpleasant to her and for various reasons
Princess Mary avoided her Julie with whom she had corresponded for
the last five years was in Moscow but proved to be quite alien to
her when they met Just then Julie who by the death of her brothers
had become one of the richest heiresses in Moscow was in the full
whirl of society pleasures She was surrounded by young men who she
fancied had suddenly learned to appreciate her worth Julie was at
that stage in the life of a society woman when she feels that her last
chance of marrying has come and that her fate must be decided now or
never On Thursdays Princess Mary remembered with a mournful smile
that she now had no one to write to since Julie--whose presence
gave her no pleasure was here and they met every week Like the old
emigre who declined to marry the lady with whom he had spent his
evenings for years she regretted Julies presence and having no one
to write to In Moscow Princess Mary had no one to talk to no one
to whom to confide her sorrow and much sorrow fell to her lot just
then The time for Prince Andrews return and marriage was
approaching but his request to her to prepare his father for it had
not been carried out in fact it seemed as if matters were quite
hopeless for at every mention of the young Countess Rostova the old
prince (who apart from that was usually in a bad temper) lost
control of himself Another lately added sorrow arose from the lessons
she gave her six year-old nephew To her consternation she detected in
herself in relation to little Nicholas some symptoms of her fathers
irritability However often she told herself that she must not get
irritable when teaching her nephew almost every time that pointer in
hand she sat down to show him the French alphabet she so longed to
pour her own knowledge quickly and easily into the child--who was
already afraid that Auntie might at any moment get angry--that at
his slightest inattention she trembled became flustered and heated
raised her voice and sometimes pulled him by the arm and put him in
the corner Having put him in the corner she would herself begin to
cry over her cruel evil nature and little Nicholas following her
example would sob and without permission would leave his corner
come to her pull her wet hands from her face and comfort her But
what distressed the princess most of all was her fathers
irritability which was always directed against her and had of late
amounted to cruelty Had he forced her to prostrate herself to the
ground all night had he beaten her or made her fetch wood or water
it would never have entered her mind to think her position hard but
this loving despot--the more cruel because he loved her and for that
reason tormented himself and her--knew how not merely to hurt and
humiliate her deliberately but to show her that she was always to
blame for everything Of late he had exhibited a new trait that
tormented Princess Mary more than anything else this was his
ever-increasing intimacy with Mademoiselle Bourienne The idea that at
the first moment of receiving the news of his sons intentions had
occurred to him in jest--that if Andrew got married he himself would
marry Bourienne--had evidently pleased him and latterly he had
persistently and as it seemed to Princess Mary merely to offend
her shown special endearments to the companion and expressed his
dissatisfaction with his daughter by demonstrations of love of
Bourienne

One day in Moscow in Princess Marys presence (she thought her
father did it purposely when she was there) the old prince kissed
Mademoiselle Bouriennes hand and drawing her to him embraced her
affectionately Princess Mary flushed and ran out of the room A few
minutes later Mademoiselle Bourienne came into Princess Marys room
smiling and making cheerful remarks in her agreeable voice Princess
Mary hastily wiped away her tears went resolutely up to
Mademoiselle Bourienne and evidently unconscious of what she was
doing began shouting in angry haste at the Frenchwoman her voice
breaking: Its horrible vile inhuman to take advantage of the
weakness She did not finish Leave my room she exclaimed and
burst into sobs

Next day the prince did not say a word to his daughter but she
noticed that at dinner he gave orders that Mademoiselle Bourienne
should be served first After dinner when the footman handed coffee
and from habit began with the princess the prince suddenly grew
furious threw his stick at Philip and instantly gave instructions to
have him conscripted for the army

He doesnt obey I said it twice and he doesnt obey! She is
the first person in this house shes my best friend cried the
prince And if you allow yourself he screamed in a fury addressing
Princess Mary for the first time to forget yourself again before her
as you dared to do yesterday I will show you who is master in this
house Go! Dont let me set eyes on you beg her pardon!

Princess Mary asked Mademoiselle Bouriennes pardon and also her
fathers pardon for herself and for Philip the footman who had begged
for her intervention

At such moments something like a pride of sacrifice gathered in
her soul And suddenly that father whom she had judged would look
for his spectacles in her presence fumbling near them and not
seeing them or would forget something that had just occurred or take
a false step with his failing legs and turn to see if anyone had
noticed his feebleness or worst of all at dinner when there were no
visitors to excite him would suddenly fall asleep letting his
napkin drop and his shaking head sink over his plate He is old and
feeble and I dare to condemn him! she thought at such moments
with a feeling of revulsion against herself





CHAPTER III


In 1811 there was living in Moscow a French doctor--Metivier--who
had rapidly become the fashion He was enormously tall handsome
amiable as Frenchmen are and was as all Moscow said an
extraordinarily clever doctor He was received in the best houses
not merely as a doctor but as an equal

Prince Nicholas had always ridiculed medicine but latterly on
Mademoiselle Bouriennes advice had allowed this doctor to visit him
and had grown accustomed to him Metivier came to see the prince about
twice a week

On December 6--St Nicholas Day and the princes name day--all
Moscow came to the princes front door but he gave orders to admit
no one and to invite to dinner only a small number a list of whom
he gave to Princess Mary

Metivier who came in the morning with his felicitations considered
it proper in his quality of doctor de forcer la consigne* as he
told Princess Mary and went in to see the prince It happened that on
that morning of his name day the prince was in one of his worst moods
He had been going about the house all the morning finding fault with
everyone and pretending not to understand what was said to him and not
to be understood himself Princess Mary well knew this mood of quiet
absorbed querulousness which generally culminated in a burst of rage
and she went about all that morning as though facing a cocked and
loaded gun and awaited the inevitable explosion Until the doctors
arrival the morning had passed off safely After admitting the doctor
Princess Mary sat down with a book in the drawing room near the door
through which she could hear all that passed in the study


*To force the guard


At first she heard only Metiviers voice then her fathers then
both voices began speaking at the same time the door was flung
open and on the threshold appeared the handsome figure of the
terrified Metivier with his shock of black hair and the prince in his
dressing gown and fez his face distorted with fury and the pupils
of his eyes rolled downwards

You dont understand shouted the prince but I do! French spy
slave of Buonaparte spy get out of my house! Be off I tell you

Metivier shrugging his shoulders went up to Mademoiselle Bourienne
who at the sound of shouting had run in from an adjoining room

The prince is not very well: bile and rush of blood to the head
Keep calm I will call again tomorrow said Metivier and putting his
fingers to his lips he hastened away

Through the study door came the sound of slippered feet and the cry:
Spies traitors traitors everywhere! Not a moments peace in my
own house!

After Metiviers departure the old prince called his daughter in
and the whole weight of his wrath fell on her She was to blame that a
spy had been admitted Had he not told her yes told her to make a
list and not to admit anyone who was not on that list Then why was
that scoundrel admitted She was the cause of it all With her he
said he could not have a moments peace and could not die quietly

No maam! We must part we must part! Understand that
understand it! I cannot endure any more he said and left the
room Then as if afraid she might find some means of consolation
he returned and trying to appear calm added: And dont imagine I have
said this in a moment of anger I am calm I have thought it over and
it will be carried out--we must part so find some place for
yourself But he could not restrain himself and with the virulence
of which only one who loves is capable evidently suffering himself
he shook his fists at her and screamed:

If only some fool would marry her! Then he slammed the door
sent for Mademoiselle Bourienne and subsided into his study

At two oclock the six chosen guests assembled for dinner

These guests--the famous Count Rostopchin Prince Lopukhin with
his nephew General Chatrov an old war comrade of the princes and of
the younger generation Pierre and Boris Drubetskoy--awaited the prince
in the drawing room

Boris who had come to Moscow on leave a few days before had been
anxious to be presented to Prince Nicholas Bolkonski and had
contrived to ingratiate himself so well that the old prince in his
case made an exception to the rule of not receiving bachelors in his
house

The princes house did not belong to what is known as fashionable
society but his little circle--though not much talked about in
town--was one it was more flattering to be received in than any other
Boris had realized this the week before when the commander in chief in
his presence invited Rostopchin to dinner on St Nicholas Day and
Rostopchin had replied that he could not come:

On that day I always go to pay my devotions to the relics of Prince
Nicholas Bolkonski

Oh yes yes! replied the commander in chief How is he

The small group that assembled before dinner in the lofty
old-fashioned drawing room with its old furniture resembled the solemn
gathering of a court of justice All were silent or talked in low
tones Prince Nicholas came in serious and taciturn Princess Mary
seemed even quieter and more diffident than usual The guests were
reluctant to address her feeling that she was in no mood for their
conversation Count Rostopchin alone kept the conversation going
now relating the latest town news and now the latest political
gossip

Lopukhin and the old general occasionally took part in the
conversation Prince Bolkonski listened as a presiding judge
receives a report only now and then silently or by a brief word
showing that he took heed of what was being reported to him The
tone of the conversation was such as indicated that no one approved of
what was being done in the political world Incidents were related
evidently confirming the opinion that everything was going from bad to
worse but whether telling a story or giving an opinion the speaker
always stopped or was stopped at the point beyond which his
criticism might touch the sovereign himself

At dinner the talk turned on the latest political news: Napoleons
seizure of the Duke of Oldenburgs territory and the Russian Note
hostile to Napoleon which had been sent to all the European courts

Bonaparte treats Europe as a pirate does a captured vessel said
Count Rostopchin repeating a phrase he had uttered several times
before One only wonders at the long-suffering or blindness of the
crowned heads Now the Popes turn has come and Bonaparte doesnt
scruple to depose the head of the Catholic Church--yet all keep
silent! Our sovereign alone has protested against the seizure of the
Duke of Oldenburgs territory and even Count Rostopchin paused
feeling that he had reached the limit beyond which censure was
impossible

Other territories have been offered in exchange for the Duchy of
Oldenburg said Prince Bolkonski He shifts the Dukes about as I
might move my serfs from Bald Hills to Bogucharovo or my Ryazan
estates

The Duke of Oldenburg bears his misfortunes with admirable strength
of character and resignation remarked Boris joining in
respectfully

He said this because on his journey from Petersburg he had had the
honor of being presented to the Duke Prince Bolkonski glanced at
the young man as if about to say something in reply but changed his
mind evidently considering him too young

I have read our protests about the Oldenburg affair and was
surprised how badly the Note was worded remarked Count Rostopchin in
the casual tone of a man dealing with a subject quite familiar to him

Pierre looked at Rostopchin with naive astonishment not
understanding why he should be disturbed by the bad composition of the
Note

Does it matter Count how the Note is worded he asked so
long as its substance is forcible

My dear fellow with our five hundred thousand troops it should
be easy to have a good style returned Count Rostopchin

Pierre now understood the counts dissatisfaction with the wording
of the Note

One would have thought quill drivers enough had sprung up
remarked the old prince There in Petersburg they are always writing-
not notes only but even new laws My Andrew there has written a
whole volume of laws for Russia Nowadays they are always writing!
and he laughed unnaturally

There was a momentary pause in the conversation the old general
cleared his throat to draw attention

Did you hear of the last event at the review in Petersburg The
figure cut by the new French ambassador

Eh Yes I heard something: he said something awkward in His
Majestys presence

His Majesty drew attention to the Grenadier division and to the
march past continued the general and it seems the ambassador
took no notice and allowed himself to reply that: We in France pay no
attention to such trifles! The Emperor did not condescend to reply
At the next review they say the Emperor did not once deign to
address him

All were silent On this fact relating to the Emperor personally it
was impossible to pass any judgment

Impudent fellows! said the prince You know Metivier I turned
him out of my house this morning He was here they admitted him spite
of my request that they should let no one in he went on glancing
angrily at his daughter

And he narrated his whole conversation with the French doctor and
the reasons that convinced him that Metivier was a spy Though these
reasons were very insufficient and obscure no one made any rejoinder

After the roast champagne was served The guests rose to
congratulate the old prince Princess Mary too went round to him

He gave her a cold angry look and offered her his wrinkled
clean-shaven cheek to kiss The whole expression of his face told
her that he had not forgotten the mornings talk that his decision
remained in force and only the presence of visitors hindered his
speaking of it to her now

When they went into the drawing room where coffee was served the
old men sat together

Prince Nicholas grew more animated and expressed his views on the
impending war

He said that our wars with Bonaparte would be disastrous so long
as we sought alliances with the Germans and thrust ourselves into
European affairs into which we had been drawn by the Peace of Tilsit
We ought not to fight either for or against Austria Our political
interests are all in the East and in regard to Bonaparte the only
thing is to have an armed frontier and a firm policy and he will
never dare to cross the Russian frontier as was the case in 1807!

How can we fight the French Prince said Count Rostopchin Can
we arm ourselves against our teachers and divinities Look at our
youths look at our ladies! The French are our Gods: Paris is our
Kingdom of Heaven

He began speaking louder evidently to be heard by everyone

French dresses French ideas French feelings! There now you
turned Metivier out by the scruff of his neck because he is a
Frenchman and a scoundrel but our ladies crawl after him on their
knees I went to a party last night and there out of five ladies
three were Roman Catholics and had the Popes indulgence for doing
woolwork on Sundays And they themselves sit there nearly naked
like the signboards at our Public Baths if I may say so Ah when
one looks at our young people Prince one would like to take Peter
the Greats old cudgel out of the museum and belabor them in the
Russian way till all the nonsense jumps out of them

All were silent The old prince looked at Rostopchin with a smile
and wagged his head approvingly

About 13 million customers per month contact the West Coast customer service
call center of the Bank of America as reported by CIO Magazines cover story
on data mining in May 1998 [1]. In the past each caller would have listened to
the same marketing advertisement whether or not it was relevant to the callers
interests. However rather than pitch the product of the week we want to be as
relevant as possible to each customer states Chris Kelly vice president and director
of database marketing at Bank of America in San Francisco. Thus Bank of Americas
customer service representatives have access to individual customer profiles so that

the customer can be informed of new products or services that may be of greatest
2 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
interest to him or her. Data mining helps to identify the type of marketing approach
for a particular customer based on the customers individual profile.
Former President Bill Clinton in his November 6 2002 address to the Democratic Leadership Council [2] mentioned that not long after the events of September
11 2001 FBI agents examined great amounts of consumer data and found that five
of the terrorist perpetrators were in the database. One of the terrorists possessed
30 credit cards with a combined balance totaling $250000 and had been in the country
for less than two years. The terrorist ringleader Mohammed Atta had 12 different
addresses two real homes and 10 safe houses. Clinton concluded that we should
proactively search through this type of data and that if somebody has been here a
couple years or less and they have 12 homes theyre either really rich or up to no
good. It shouldnt be that hard to figure out which.
Brain tumors represent the most deadly cancer among children with nearly
3000 cases diagnosed per year in the United States nearly half of which are fatal.
Eric Bremer [3] director of brain tumor research at Childrens Memorial Hospital
in Chicago has set the goal of building a gene expression database for pediatric
brain tumors in an effort to develop more effective treatment. As one of the first
steps in tumor identification Bremer uses the Clementine data mining software suite
published by SPSS Inc. to classify the tumor into one of 12 or so salient types. As
we shall learn in Chapter 5 classification is one of the most important data mining
tasks.
These stories are examples of data mining.
WHAT IS DATA MINING
According to the Gartner Group [4] Data mining is the process of discovering
meaningful new correlations patterns and trends by sifting through large amounts of
data stored in repositories using pattern recognition technologies as well as statistical
and mathematical techniques. There are other definitions:
 Data mining is the analysis of often large observational data sets to find
unsuspected relationships and to summarize the data in novel ways that are
both understandable and useful to the data owner Hand et al. [5].
 Data mining is an interdisciplinary field bringing togther techniques from
machine learning pattern recognition statistics databases and visualization to
address the issue of information extraction from large data bases Evangelos
Simoudis in Cabena et al. [6].
Data mining is predicted to be one of the most revolutionary developments
of the next decade according to the online technology magazine ZDNET News [7].
In fact the MIT Technology Review [8] chose data mining as one of 10 emerging
technologies that will change the world. Data mining expertise is the most sought
after . . . among information technology professionals according to the 1999 Information Week National Salary Survey [9]. The survey reports: Data mining skills
WHAT IS DATA MINING 3
are in high demand this year as organizations increasingly put data repositories
online. Effectively analyzing information from customers partners and suppliers
has become important to more companies. Many companies have implemented a
data warehouse strategy and are now starting to look at what they can do with all that
data says Dudley Brown managing partner of BridgeGate LLC a recruiting firm in
Irvine Calif.
How widespread is data mining Which industries are moving into this area
Actually the use of data mining is pervasive extending into some surprising areas.
Consider the following employment advertisement [10]:
STATISTICS INTERN: SEPTEMBERDECEMBER 2003
Work with Basketball Operations
Resposibilities include:
 Compiling and converting data into format for use in statistical models
 Developing statistical forecasting models using regression logistic regression data
mining etc.
 Using statistical packages such as Minitab SPSS XLMiner
Experience in developing statistical models a differentiator but not required.
Candidates who have completed advanced statistics coursework with a strong knowledge
of basketball and the love of the game should forward your resum  e and cover letter to: 
Boston Celtics
Director of Human Resources
151 Merrimac Street
Boston MA 02114

Yes the Boston Celtics are looking for a data miner. Perhaps the Celtics data
miner is needed to keep up with the New York Knicks who are using IBMs Advanced
Scout data mining software [11]. Advanced Scout developed by a team led by Inderpal Bhandari is designed to detect patterns in data. A big basketball fan Bhandari
approached the New York Knicks who agreed to try it out. The software depends on
the data kept by the National Basketball Association in the form of events in every
game such as baskets shots passes rebounds double-teaming and so on. As it turns
out the data mining uncovered a pattern that the coaching staff had evidently missed.
When the Chicago Bulls double-teamed Knicks center Patrick Ewing the Knicks
shooting percentage was extremely low even though double-teaming should open up
an opportunity for a teammate to shoot. Based on this information the coaching staff
was able to develop strategies for dealing with the double-teaming situation. Later
16 of the 29 NBA teams also turned to Advanced Scout to mine the play-by-play
data.
4 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
WHY DATA MINING
While waiting in line at a large supermarket have you ever just closed your eyes and
listened What do you hear apart from the kids pleading for candy bars You might
hear the beep beep beep of the supermarket scanners reading the bar codes on the
grocery items ringing up on the register and storing the data on servers located at
the supermarket headquarters. Each beep indicates a new row in the database a new
observation in the information being collected about the shopping habits of your
family and the other families who are checking out.
Clearly a lot of data is being collected. However what is being learned from
all this data What knowledge are we gaining from all this information Probably
depending on the supermarket not much. As early as 1984 in his book Megatrends
[12] John Naisbitt observed that we are drowning in information but starved for
knowledge. The problem today is not that there is not enough data and information
streaming in. We are in fact inundated with data in most fields. Rather the problem
is that there are not enough trained human analysts available who are skilled at
translating all of this data into knowledge and thence up the taxonomy tree into
wisdom.
The ongoing remarkable growth in the field of data mining and knowledge
discovery has been fueled by a fortunate confluence of a variety of factors:
 The explosive growth in data collection as exemplified by the supermarket
scanners above
 The storing of the data in data warehouses so that the entire enterprise has
access to a reliable current database
 The availability of increased access to data from Web navigation and intranets
 The competitive pressure to increase market share in a globalized economy
 The development of off-the-shelf commercial data mining software suites
 The tremendous growth in computing power and storage capacity
NEED FOR HUMAN DIRECTION OF DATA MINING
Many software vendors market their analytical software as being plug-and-play outof-the-box applications that will provide solutions to otherwise intractable problems
without the need for human supervision or interaction. Some early definitions of data
mining followed this focus on automation. For example Berry and Linoff in their
book Data Mining Techniques for Marketing Sales and Customer Support [13] gave
the following definition for data mining: Data mining is the process of exploration
and analysis by automatic or semi-automatic means of large quantities of data in
order to discover meaningful patterns and rules emphasis added. Three years later
in their sequel Mastering Data Mining [14] the authors revisit their definition of
data mining and state: If there is anything we regret it is the phrase by automatic
or semi-automatic means  because we feel there has come to be too much focus
on the automatic techniques and not enough on the exploration and analysis. This has
CROSS-INDUSTRY STANDARD PROCESS: CRISPDM 5
misled many people into believing that data mining is a product that can be bought
rather than a discipline that must be mastered.
Very well stated! Automation is no substitute for human input. As we shall
learn shortly humans need to be actively involved at every phase of the data mining
process. Georges Grinstein of the University of Massachusetts at Lowell and AnVil
Inc. stated it like this [15]:
Imagine a black box capable of answering any question it is asked. Any question. Will
this eliminate our need for human participation as many suggest Quite the opposite.
The fundamental problem still comes down to a human interface issue. How do I phrase
the question correctly How do I set up the parameters to get a solution that is applicable
in the particular case I am interested in How do I get the results in reasonable time
and in a form that I can understand Note that all the questions connect the discovery
process to me for my human consumption.
Rather than asking where humans fit into data mining we should instead inquire about
how we may design data mining into the very human process of problem solving.
Further the very power of the formidable data mining algorithms embedded in
the black-box software currently available makes their misuse proportionally more
dangerous. Just as with any new information technology data mining is easy to
do badly. Researchers may apply inappropriate analysis to data sets that call for a
completely different approach for example or models may be derived that are built
upon wholly specious assumptions. Therefore an understanding of the statistical and
mathematical model structures underlying the software is required.
CROSS-INDUSTRY STANDARD PROCESS: CRISPDM
There is a temptation in some companies due to departmental inertia and compartmentalization to approach data mining haphazardly to reinvent the wheel and
duplicate effort. A cross-industry standard was clearly required that is industryneutral tool-neutral and application-neutral. The Cross-Industry Standard Process
for Data Mining CRISPDM [16] was developed in 1996 by analysts representing
DaimlerChrysler SPSS and NCR. CRISP provides a nonproprietary and freely available standard process for fitting data mining into the general problem-solving strategy
of a business or research unit.
According to CRISPDM a given data mining project has a life cycle consisting
of six phases as illustrated in Figure 1.1. Note that the phase sequence is adaptive.
That is the next phase in the sequence often depends on the outcomes associated
with the preceding phase. The most significant dependencies between phases are
indicated by the arrows. For example suppose that we are in the modeling phase.
Depending on the behavior and characteristics of the model we may have to return to
the data preparation phase for further refinement before moving forward to the model
evaluation phase.
The iterative nature of CRISP is symbolized by the outer circle in Figure 1.1.
Often the solution to a particular business or research problem leads to further questions of interest which may then be attacked using the same general process as before.
6 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Business / Research
Understanding Phase Data Understanding
Phase
Data Preparation
Phase
Deployment Phase
Evaluation Phase Modeling Phase
Figure 1.1 CRISPDM is an iterative adaptive process.
Lessons learned from past projects should always be brought to bear as input into
new projects. Following is an outline of each phase. Although conceivably issues
encountered during the evaluation phase can send the analyst back to any of the previous phases for amelioration for simplicity we show only the most common loop
back to the modeling phase.
CRISPDM: The Six Phases
1. Business understanding phase. The first phase in the CRISPDM standard
process may also be termed the research understanding phase.
a. Enunciate the project objectives and requirements clearly in terms of the
business or research unit as a whole.
b. Translate these goals and restrictions into the formulation of a data mining
problem definition.
c. Prepare a preliminary strategy for achieving these objectives.
2. Data understanding phase
a. Collect the data.
CROSS-INDUSTRY STANDARD PROCESS: CRISPDM 7
b. Use exploratory data analysis to familiarize yourself with the data and discover initial insights.
c. Evaluate the quality of the data.
d. If desired select interesting subsets that may contain actionable patterns.
3. Data preparation phase
a. Prepare from the initial raw data the final data set that is to be used for all
subsequent phases. This phase is very labor intensive.
b. Select the cases and variables you want to analyze and that are appropriate
for your analysis.
c. Perform transformations on certain variables if needed.
d. Clean the raw data so that it is ready for the modeling tools.
4. Modeling phase
a. Select and apply appropriate modeling techniques.
b. Calibrate model settings to optimize results.
c. Remember that often several different techniques may be used for the same
data mining problem.
 If necessary loop back to the data preparation phase to bring the form of
the data into line with the specific requirements of a particular data mining
technique.
5. Evaluation phase
a. Evaluate the one or more models delivered in the modeling phase for quality
and effectiveness before deploying them for use in the field.
b. Determine whether the model in fact achieves the objectives set for it in the
first phase.
c. Establish whether some important facet of the business or research problem
has not been accounted for sufficiently.
d. Come to a decision regarding use of the data mining results.
6. Deployment phase
a. Make use of the models created: Model creation does not signify the completion of a project.
b. Example of a simple deployment: Generate a report.
c. Example of a more complex deployment: Implement a parallel data mining
process in another department.
d. For businesses the customer often carries out the deployment based on your
model.
You can find out much more information about the CRISPDM standard process
at www.crisp-dm.org. Next we turn to an example of a company applying CRISP
DM to a business problem.
8 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
CASE STUDY 1
ANALYZING AUTOMOBILE WARRANTY CLAIMS: EXAMPLE OF THE
CRISPDM INDUSTRY STANDARD PROCESS IN ACTION [17]
Quality assurance continues to be a priority for automobile manufacturers including Daimler
Chrysler. Jochen Hipp of the University of Tubingen Germany and Guido Lindner of DaimlerChrysler AG Germany investigated patterns in the warranty claims for DaimlerChrysler
automobiles.
1. Business Understanding Phase
DaimlerChryslers objectives are to reduce costs associated with warranty claims and improve customer satisfaction. Through conversations with plant engineers who are the technical
experts in vehicle manufacturing the researchers are able to formulate specific business problems such as the following:
 Are there interdependencies among warranty claims
 Are past warranty claims associated with similar claims in the future
 Is there an association between a certain type of claim and a particular garage
The plan is to apply appropriate data mining techniques to try to uncover these and other
possible associations.
2. Data Understanding Phase
The researchers make use of DaimlerChryslers Quality Information System QUIS which
contains information on over 7 million vehicles and is about 40 gigabytes in size. QUIS
contains production details about how and where a particular vehicle was constructed including
an average of 30 or more sales codes for each vehicle. QUIS also includes warranty claim
information which the garage supplies in the form of one of more than 5000 possible potential
causes.
The researchers stressed the fact that the database was entirely unintelligible to domain
nonexperts: So experts from different departments had to be located and consulted in brief a
task that turned out to be rather costly. They emphasize that analysts should not underestimate
the importance difficulty and potential cost of this early phase of the data mining process and
that shortcuts here may lead to expensive reiterations of the process downstream.
3. Data Preparation Phase
The researchers found that although relational the QUIS database had limited SQL access.
They needed to select the cases and variables of interest manually and then manually derive
new variables that could be used for the modeling phase. For example the variable number of
days from selling date until first claim had to be derived from the appropriate date attributes.
They then turned to proprietary data mining software which had been used at
DaimlerChrysler on earlier projects. Here they ran into a common roadblockthat the data
format requirements varied from algorithm to algorithm. The result was further exhaustive preprocessing of the data to transform the attributes into a form usable for model algorithms. The
researchers mention that the data preparation phase took much longer than they had planned.
CROSS-INDUSTRY STANDARD PROCESS: CRISPDM 9
4. Modeling Phase
Since the overall business problem from phase 1 was to investigate dependence among the warranty claims the researchers chose to apply the following techniques: 1 Bayesian networks
and 2 association rules. Bayesian networks model uncertainty by explicitly representing the
conditional dependencies among various components thus providing a graphical visualization
of the dependency relationships among the components. As such Bayesian networks represent
a natural choice for modeling dependence among warranty claims. The mining of association
rules is covered in Chapter 10. Association rules are also a natural way to investigate dependence among warranty claims since the confidence measure represents a type of conditional
probability similar to Bayesian networks.
The details of the results are confidential but we can get a general idea of the type of
dependencies uncovered by the models. One insight the researchers uncovered was that a
particular combination of construction specifications doubles the probability of encountering
an automobile electrical cable problem. DaimlerChrysler engineers have begun to investigate
how this combination of factors can result in an increase in cable problems.
The researchers investigated whether certain garages had more warranty claims of a certain
type than did other garages. Their association rule results showed that indeed the confidence
levels for the rule If garage X then cable problem varied considerably from garage to garage.
They state that further investigation is warranted to reveal the reasons for the disparity.
5. Evaluation Phase
The researchers were disappointed that the support for sequential-type association rules was
relatively small thus precluding generalization of the results in their opinion. Overall in fact
the researchers state: In fact we did not find any rule that our domain experts would judge
as interesting at least at first sight. According to this criterion then the models were found
to be lacking in effectiveness and to fall short of the objectives set for them in the business
understanding phase. To account for this the researchers point to the legacy structure of the
database for which automobile parts were categorized by garages and factories for historic or
technical reasons and not designed for data mining. They suggest adapting and redesigning the
database to make it more amenable to knowledge discovery.
6. Deployment Phase
The researchers have identified the foregoing project as a pilot project and as such do not intend
to deploy any large-scale models from this first iteration. After the pilot project however they
have applied the lessons learned from this project with the goal of integrating their methods
with the existing information technology environment at DaimlerChrysler. To further support
the original goal of lowering claims costs they intend to develop an intranet offering mining
capability of QUIS for all corporate employees.
What lessons can we draw from this case study First the general impression
one draws is that uncovering hidden nuggets of knowledge in databases is a rocky road.
In nearly every phase the researchers ran into unexpected roadblocks and difficulties.
This tells us that actually applying data mining for the first time in a company requires
asking people to do something new and different which is not always welcome.
Therefore if they expect results corporate management must be 100% supportive of
new data mining initiatives.
10 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Another lesson to draw is that intense human participation and supervision is
required at every stage of the data mining process. For example the algorithms require
specific data formats which may require substantial preprocessing see Chapter 2.
Regardless of what some software vendor advertisements may claim you cant just
purchase some data mining software install it sit back and watch it solve all your
problems. Data mining is not magic. Without skilled human supervision blind use
of data mining software will only provide you with the wrong answer to the wrong
question applied to the wrong type of data. The wrong analysis is worse than no
analysis since it leads to policy recommendations that will probably turn out to be
expensive failures.
Finally from this case study we can draw the lesson that there is no guarantee of
positive results when mining data for actionable knowledge any more than when one
is mining for gold. Data mining is not a panacea for solving business problems. But
used properly by people who understand the models involved the data requirements
and the overall project objectives data mining can indeed provide actionable and
highly profitable results.
FALLACIES OF DATA MINING
Speaking before the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Technology
Information Policy Intergovernmental Relations and Census Jen Que Louie president of Nautilus Systems Inc. described four fallacies of data mining [18]. Two of
these fallacies parallel the warnings we described above.
 Fallacy 1. There are data mining tools that we can turn loose on our data
repositories and use to find answers to our problems.
 Reality. There are no automatic data mining tools that will solve your problems
mechanically while you wait. Rather data mining is a process as we have
seen above. CRISPDM is one method for fitting the data mining process
into the overall business or research plan of action.
 Fallacy 2. The data mining process is autonomous requiring little or no human
oversight.
 Reality. As we saw above the data mining process requires significant human
interactivity at each stage. Even after the model is deployed the introduction
of new data often requires an updating of the model. Continuous quality monitoring and other evaluative measures must be assessed by human analysts.
 Fallacy 3. Data mining pays for itself quite quickly.
 Reality. The return rates vary depending on the startup costs analysis personnel costs data warehousing preparation costs and so on.
 Fallacy 4. Data mining software packages are intuitive and easy to use.
 Reality. Again ease of use varies. However data analysts must combine
subject matter knowledge with an analytical mind and a familiarity with the
overall business or research model.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 11
To the list above we add two additional common fallacies:
 Fallacy 5. Data mining will identify the causes of our business or research
problems.
 Reality. The knowledge discovery process will help you to uncover patterns
of behavior. Again it is up to humans to identify the causes.
 Fallacy 6. Data mining will clean up a messy database automatically.
 Reality. Well not automatically. As a preliminary phase in the data mining
process data preparation often deals with data that has not been examined or
used in years. Therefore organizations beginning a new data mining operation
will often be confronted with the problem of data that has been lying around
for years is stale and needs considerable updating.
The discussion above may have been termed what data mining cannot or should
not do. Next we turn to a discussion of what data mining can do.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH
Next we investigate the main tasks that data mining is usually called upon to accomplish. The following list shows the most common data mining tasks.
 Description
 Estimation
 Prediction
 Classification
 Clustering
 Association
Description
Sometimes researchers and analysts are simply trying to find ways to describe patterns
and trends lying within data. For example a pollster may uncover evidence that
those who have been laid off are less likely to support the present incumbent in
the presidential election. Descriptions of patterns and trends often suggest possible
explanations for such patterns and trends. For example those who are laid off are now
less well off financially than before the incumbent was elected and so would tend to
prefer an alternative.
Data mining models should be as transparent as possible. That is the results of
the data mining model should describe clear patterns that are amenable to intuitive interpretation and explanation. Some data mining methods are more suited than others to
transparent interpretation. For example decision trees provide an intuitive and humanfriendly explanation of their results. On the other hand neural networks are comparatively opaque to nonspecialists due to the nonlinearity and complexity of the model.
High-quality description can often be accomplished by exploratory data analysis a graphical method of exploring data in search of patterns and trends. We look
at exploratory data analysis in Chapter 3.
12 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Estimation
Estimation is similar to classification except that the target variable is numerical rather
than categorical. Models are built using complete records which provide the value
of the target variable as well as the predictors. Then for new observations estimates
of the value of the target variable are made based on the values of the predictors.
For example we might be interested in estimating the systolic blood pressure reading
of a hospital patient based on the patients age gender body-mass index and blood
sodium levels. The relationship between systolic blood pressure and the predictor
variables in the training set would provide us with an estimation model. We can then
apply that model to new cases.
Examples of estimation tasks in business and research include:
 Estimating the amount of money a randomly chosen family of four will spend
for back-to-school shopping this fall.
 Estimating the percentage decrease in rotary-movement sustained by a National
Football League running back with a knee injury.
 Estimating the number of points per game that Patrick Ewing will score when
double-teamed in the playoffs.
 Estimating the grade-point average GPA of a graduate student based on that
students undergraduate GPA.
Consider Figure 1.2 where we have a scatter plot of the graduate grade-point
averages GPAs against the undergraduate GPAs for 1000 students. Simple linear
regression allows us to find the line that best approximates the relationship between
these two variables according to the least-squares criterion. The regression line
indicated in blue in Figure 1.2 may then be used to estimate the graduate GPA of a
student given that students undergraduate GPA. Here the equation of the regression
line as produced by the statistical package Minitab which also produced the graph
is y = 1.24 + 0.67x. This tells us that the estimated graduate GPA y equals 1.24 plus
Undergraduate GPA
Graduate GPA
2 3 4
4 3
3.25
2
Figure 1.2 Regression estimates lie on the regression line.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 13
0.67 times the students undergraduate GPA. For example if your undergrad GPA is
3.0 your estimated graduate GPA is y = 1.24 + 0.673 = 3.25. Note that this point
x = 3.0 y = 3.25 lies precisely on the regression line as do all linear regression
predictions.
The field of statistical analysis supplies several venerable and widely used
estimation methods. These include point estimation and confidence interval estimations simple linear regression and correlation and multiple regression. We examine
these methods in Chapter 4. Neural networks Chapter 7 may also be used for estimation.
Prediction
Prediction is similar to classification and estimation except that for prediction the
results lie in the future. Examples of prediction tasks in business and research include:
 Predicting the price of a stock three months into the future Figure 1.3
 Predicting the percentage increase in traffic deaths next year if the speed limit
is increased
 Predicting the winner of this falls baseball World Series based on a comparison
of team statistics
 Predicting whether a particular molecule in drug discovery will lead to a profitable new drug for a pharmaceutical company
Any of the methods and techniques used for classification and estimation may
also be used under appropriate circumstances for prediction. These include the
traditional statistical methods of point estimation and confidence interval estimations
simple linear regression and correlation and multiple regression investigated in
Chapter 4 as well as data mining and knowledge discovery methods such as neural
network Chapter 7 decision tree Chapter 6 and k-nearest neighbor Chapter 5
methods. An application of prediction using neural networks is examined later in the
chapter in Case Study 2.
Stock Price
  
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Figure 1.3 Predicting the price of a stock three months in the future.
14 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Classification
In classification there is a target categorical variable such as income bracket which
for example could be partitioned into three classes or categories: high income middle
income and low income. The data mining model examines a large set of records each
record containing information on the target variable as well as a set of input or predictor
variables. For example consider the excerpt from a data set shown in Table 1.1.
Suppose that the researcher would like to be able to classify the income brackets of
persons not currently in the database based on other characteristics associated with
that person such as age gender and occupation. This task is a classification task very
nicely suited to data mining methods and techniques. The algorithm would proceed
roughly as follows. First examine the data set containing both the predictor variables
and the already classified target variable income bracket. In this way the algorithm
software learns about which combinations of variables are associated with which
income brackets. For example older females may be associated with the high-income
bracket. This data set is called the training set. Then the algorithm would look at
new records for which no information about income bracket is available. Based on
the classifications in the training set the algorithm would assign classifications to the
new records. For example a 63-year-old female professor might be classified in the
high-income bracket.
Examples of classification tasks in business and research include:
 Determining whether a particular credit card transaction is fraudulent
 Placing a new student into a particular track with regard to special needs
 Assessing whether a mortgage application is a good or bad credit risk
 Diagnosing whether a particular disease is present
 Determining whether a will was written by the actual deceased or fraudulently
by someone else
 Identifying whether or not certain financial or personal behavior indicates a
possible terrorist threat
For example in the medical field suppose that we are interested in classifying
the type of drug a patient should be prescribed based on certain patient characteristics
such as the age of the patient and the patients sodium/potassium ratio. Figure 1.4 is
a scatter plot of patients sodium/potassium ratio against patients ages for a sample
of 200 patients. The particular drug prescribed is symbolized by the shade of the
points. Light gray points indicate drug Y medium gray points indicate drug A or X
TABLE 1.1 Excerpt from Data Set for Classifying Income
Subject Age Gender Occupation Income Bracket
001 47 F Software engineer High
002 28 M Marketing consultant Middle
003 35 M Unemployed Low
...
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 15
Age
Na/K Ratio
10
10
20
30
40
20 30 40 50 60 70
Figure 1.4 Which drug should be prescribed for which type of patient
dark gray points indicate drug B or C. This plot was generated using the Clementine
data mining software suite published by SPSS.
In this scatter plot Na/K sodium/potassium ratio is plotted on the Y vertical
axis and age is plotted on the X horizontal axis. Suppose that we base our prescription
recommendation on this data set.
1. Which drug should be prescribed for a young patient with a high sodium/
potassium ratio
 Young patients are on the left in the graph and high sodium/potassium ratios are in the upper half which indicates that previous young patients with
high sodium/potassium ratios were prescribed drug Y light gray points. The
recommended prediction classification for such patients is drug Y.
2. Which drug should be prescribed for older patients with low sodium/potassium
ratios
 Patients in the lower right of the graph have been taking different prescriptions
indicated by either dark gray drugs B and C or medium gray drugs A
and X. Without more specific information a definitive classification cannot
be made here. For example perhaps these drugs have varying interactions
with beta-blockers estrogens or other medications or are contraindicated
for conditions such as asthma or heart disease.
Graphs and plots are helpful for understanding two- and three-dimensional relationships in data. But sometimes classifications need to be based on many different
predictors requiring a many-dimensional plot. Therefore we need to turn to more sophisticated models to perform our classification tasks. Common data mining methods
used for classification are k-nearest neighbor Chapter 5 decision tree Chapter 6
and neural network Chapter 7. An application of classification using decision trees
is examined in Case Study 4.
16 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Clustering
Clustering refers to the grouping of records observations or cases into classes of similar objects. A cluster is a collection of records that are similar to one another and
dissimilar to records in other clusters. Clustering differs from classification in that there is no target variable for clustering. The clustering task does not try to classify
estimate or predict the value of a target variable. Instead clustering algorithms seek to segment the entire data set into relatively homogeneous subgroups or clusterswhere the similarity of the records within the cluster is maximized and the similarity
to records outside the cluster is minimized.
Claritas Inc. [19] is in the clustering business. Among the services they provide is a demographic profile of each of the geographic areas in the country as definedby zip code. One of the clustering mechanisms they use is the PRIZM segmentation system which describes every U.S. zip code area in terms of distinct lifestyle types
Table 1.2. Just go to the companys Web site [19] enter a particular zip code andyou are shown the most common PRIZM clusters for that zip code.What do these clusters mean For illustration lets look up the clusters for
zip code 90210 Beverly Hills California. The resulting clusters for zip code 90210
are:
 Cluster 01: Blue Blood Estates
 Cluster 10: Bohemian Mix
 Cluster 02: Winners Circle
 Cluster 07: Money and Brains
 Cluster 08: Young Literati
TABLE 1.2 The 62 Clusters Used by the PRIZM Segmentation System
01 Blue Blood Estates 02 Winners Circle 03 Executive Suites 04 Pools & Patios
05 Kids & Cul-de-Sacs 06 Urban Gold Coast 07 Money & Brains 08 Young Literati
09 American Dreams 10 Bohemian Mix 11 Second City Elite 12 Upward Bound
13 Gray Power 14 Country Squires 15 Gods Country 16 Big Fish Small Pond
17 Greenbelt Families 18 Young Influentials 19 New Empty Nests 20 Boomers & Babies
21 Suburban Sprawl 22 Blue-Chip Blues 23 Upstarts & Seniors 24 New Beginnings
25 Mobility Blues 26 Gray Collars 27 Urban Achievers 28 Big City Blend
29 Old Yankee Rows 30 Mid-City Mix 31 Latino America 32 Middleburg Managers
33 Boomtown Singles 34 Starter Families 35 Sunset City Blues 36 Towns & Gowns
37 New Homesteaders 38 Middle America 39 Red White & Blues 40 Military Quarters
41 Big Sky Families 42 New Eco-topia 43 River City USA 44 Shotguns & Pickups
45 Single City Blues 46 Hispanic Mix 47 Inner Cities 48 Smalltown Downtown
49 Hometown Retired 50 Family Scramble 51 Southside City 52 Golden Ponds
53 Rural Industria 54 Norma Rae-Ville 55 Mines & Mills 56 Agri-Business
57 Grain Belt 58 Blue Highways 59 Rustic Elders 60 Back Country Folks
61 Scrub Pine Flats 62 Hard Scrabble
Source: Claritas Inc.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 17
The description for cluster 01 Blue Blood Estates is: Established executives
professionals and old money heirs that live in Americas wealthiest suburbs. They
are accustomed to privilege and live luxuriouslyone-tenth of this groups members
are multimillionaires. The next affluence level is a sharp drop from this pinnacle.
Examples of clustering tasks in business and research include:
 Target marketing of a niche product for a small-capitalization business that does
not have a large marketing budget
 For accounting auditing purposes to segmentize financial behavior into benign
and suspicious categories
 As a dimension-reduction tool when the data set has hundreds of attributes
 For gene expression clustering where very large quantities of genes may exhibit
similar behavior
Clustering is often performed as a preliminary step in a data mining process
with the resulting clusters being used as further inputs into a different technique
downstream such as neural networks. We discuss hierarchical and k-means clustering
in Chapter 8 and Kohonen networks in Chapter 9. An application of clustering is
examined in Case Study 5.
Association
The association task for data mining is the job of finding which attributes go together. Most prevalent in the business world where it is known as affinity analysis or
market basket analysis the task of association seeks to uncover rules for quantifying
the relationship between two or more attributes. Association rules are of the form If
antecedent then consequent together with a measure of the support and confidence
associated with the rule. For example a particular supermarket may find that of the
1000 customers shopping on a Thursday night 200 bought diapers and of those 200
who bought diapers 50 bought beer. Thus the association rule would be If buy diapers then buy beer with a support of 200/1000 = 20% and a confidence of 50/200 =
25%.
Examples of association tasks in business and research include:
 Investigating the proportion of subscribers to a companys cell phone plan that
respond positively to an offer of a service upgrade
 Examining the proportion of children whose parents read to them who are
themselves good readers
 Predicting degradation in telecommunications networks
 Finding out which items in a supermarket are purchased together and which
items are never purchased together
 Determining the proportion of cases in which a new drug will exhibit dangerous
side effects
We discuss two algorithms for generating association rules the a priori algorithm and the GRI algorithm in Chapter 10. Association rules were utilized in Case
Study 1. We examine another application of association rules in Case Study 3.
18 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
Next we examine four case studies each of which demonstrates a particular
data mining task in the context of the CRISPDM data mining standard process.
CASE STUDY 2
PREDICTING ABNORMAL STOCK MARKET RETURNS
USING NEURAL NETWORKS [20]
1. Business/Research Understanding Phase
Alan M. Safer of California State UniversityLong Beach reports that stock market trades
made by insiders usually have abnormal returns. Increased profits can be made by outsiders
using legal insider trading information especially by focusing on attributes such as company
size and the time frame for prediction. Safer is interested in using data mining methodology to increase the ability to predict abnormal stock price returns arising from legal insider
trading.
2. Data Understanding Phase
Safer collected data from 343 companies extending from January 1993 to June 1997 the
source of the data being the Securities and Exchange Commission. The stocks used in the
study were all of the stocks that had insider records for the entire period and were in the S&P
600 S&P 400 or S&P 500 small medium and large capitalization respectively as of June
1997. Of the 946 resulting stocks that met this description Safer chose only those stocks that
underwent at least two purchase orders per year to assure a sufficient amount of transaction
data for the data mining analyses. This resulted in 343 stocks being used for the study. The
variables in the original data set include the company name and rank of the insider transaction
date stock price number of shares traded type of transaction buy or sell and number of
shares held after the trade. To assess an insiders prior trading patterns the study examined the
previous 9 and 18 weeks of trading history. The prediction time frames for predicting abnormal
returns were established as 3 6 9 and 12 months.
3. Data Preparation Phase
Safer decided that the company rank of the insider would not be used as a study attribute since
other research had shown it to be of mixed predictive value for predicting abnormal stock price
returns. Similarly he omitted insiders who were uninvolved with company decisions. Note
that the present author does not necessarily agree with omitting variables prior to the modeling
phase because of earlier findings of mixed predictive value. If they are indeed of no predictive
value the models will so indicate presumably. But if there is a chance of something interesting
going on the model should perhaps be given an opportunity to look at it. However Safer is the
domain expert in this area.
4. Modeling Phase
The data were split into a training set 80% of the data and a validation set 20%. A neural
network model was applied which uncovered the following results:
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 19
a. Certain industries had the most predictable abnormal stock returns including:
 Industry group 36: electronic equipment excluding computer equipment
 Industry Group 28: chemical products
 Industry Group 37: transportation equipment
 Industry Group 73: business services
b. Predictions that looked further into the future 9 to 12 months had increased ability to
identify unusual insider trading variations than did predictions that had a shorter time
frame 3 to 6 months.
c. It was easier to predict abnormal stock returns from insider trading for small companies
than for large companies.
5. Evaluation Phase
Safer concurrently applied a multivariate adaptive regression spline MARS not covered here
model to the same data set. The MARS model uncovered many of the same findings as the
neural network model including results a and b from the modeling phase. Such a confluence of results is a powerful and elegant method for evaluating the quality and effectiveness
of the model analogous to getting two independent judges to concur on a decision. Data
miners should strive to produce such a confluence of results whenever the opportunity arises.
This is possible because often more than one data mining method may be applied appropriately to the problem at hand. If both models concur as to the results this strengthens our
confidence in the findings. If the models disagree we should probably investigate further.
Sometimes one type of model is simply better suited to uncovering a certain type of result but sometimes disagreement indicates deeper problems requiring cycling back to earlier
phases.
6. Deployment Phase
The publication of Safers findings in Intelligent Data Analysis [20] constitutes one method of
model deployment. Now analysts from around the world can take advantage of his methods to
track the abnormal stock price returns of insider trading and thereby help to protect the small
investor.
CASE STUDY 3
MINING ASSOCIATION RULES FROM LEGAL DATABASES [21]
1. Business/Research Understanding Phase
The researchers Sasha Ivkovic and John Yearwood of the University of Ballarat and Andrew
Stranieri of La Trobe University Australia are interested in whether interesting and actionable
association rules can be uncovered in a large data set containing information on applicants for
government-funded legal aid in Australia. Because most legal data is not structured in a manner
easily suited to most data mining techniques application of knowledge discovery methods to
legal data has not developed as quickly as in other areas. The researchers goal is to improve
20 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
the delivery of legal services and just outcomes in law through improved use of available legal
data.
2. Data Understanding Phase
The data are provided by Victoria Legal Aid VLA a semigovernmental organization that
aims to provide more effective legal aid for underprivileged people in Australia. Over 380000
applications for legal aid were collected from the 11 regional offices of VLA spanning 1997
1999 including information on more than 300 variables. In an effort to reduce the number of
variables the researchers turned to domain experts for assistance. These experts selected seven
of the most important variables for inclusion in the data set: gender age occupation reason for
refusal of aid law type e.g. civil law decision i.e. aid granted or not granted and dealing
type e.g. court appearance.
3. Data Preparation Phase
The VLA data set turned out to be relatively clean containing very few records with missing or
incorrectly coded attribute values. This is in part due to the database management system used
by the VLA which performs quality checks on input data. The age variable was partitioned
into discrete intervals such as under 18 over 50 and so on.
4. Modeling Phase
Rules were restricted to having only a single antecedent and a single consequent. Many interesting association rules were uncovered along with many uninteresting rules which is the
typical scenario for association rule mining. One such interesting rule was: If place of birth =
Vietnam then law type = criminal law with 90% confidence.
The researchers proceeded on the accurate premise that association rules are interesting
if they spawn interesting hypotheses. A discussion among the researchers and experts for the
reasons underlying the association rule above considered the following hypotheses:
 Hypothesis A: Vietnamese applicants applied for support only for criminal law and not
for other types such as family and civil law.
 Hypothesis B: Vietnamese applicants committed more crime than other groups.
 Hypothesis C: There is a lurking variable. Perhaps Vietnamese males are more likely
than females to apply for aid and males are more associated with criminal law.
 Hypothesis D: The Vietnamese did not have ready access to VLA promotional material.
The panel of researchers and experts concluded informally that hypothesis A was most
likely although further investigation is perhaps warranted and no causal link can be assumed.
Note however the intense human interactivity throughout the data mining process. Without
the domain experts knowledge and experience the data mining results in this case would not
have been fruitful.
5. Evaluation Phase
The researchers adopted a unique evaluative methodology for their project. They brought in
three domain experts and elicited from them their estimates of the confidence levels for each of
144 association rules. These estimated confidence levels were then compared with the actual
confidence levels of the association rules uncovered in the data set.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 21
6. Deployment Phase
A useful Web-based application WebAssociator was developed so that nonspecialists could
take advantage of the rule-building engine. Users select the single antecedent and single consequent using a Web-based form. The researchers suggest that WebAssociator could be deployed
as part of a judicial support system especially for identifying unjust processes.
CASE STUDY 4
PREDICTING CORPORATE BANKRUPTCIES USING
DECISION TREES [22]
1. Business/Research Understanding Phase
The recent economic crisis in East Asia has spawned an unprecedented level of corporate
bankruptcies in that region and around the world. The goal of the researchers Tae Kyung
Sung from Kyonggi University Namsik Chang from the University of Seoul and Gunhee
Lee of Sogang University Korea is to develop models for predicting corporate bankruptcies
that maximize the interpretability of the results. They felt that interpretability was important
because a negative bankruptcy prediction can itself have a devastating impact on a financial
institution so that firms that are predicted to go bankrupt demand strong and logical reasoning.
If ones company is in danger of going under and a prediction of bankruptcy could itself
contribute to the final failure that prediction better be supported by solid trace-able evidence
not by a simple up/down decision delivered by a black box. Therefore the researchers chose
decision trees as their analysis method because of the transparency of the algorithm and the
interpretability of results.
2. Data Understanding Phase
The data included two groups Korean firms that went bankrupt in the relatively stable growth
period of 19911995 and Korean firms that went bankrupt in the economic crisis conditions of
19971998. After various screening procedures 29 firms were identified mostly in the manufacturing sector. The financial data was collected directly from the Korean Stock Exchange
and verified by the Bank of Korea and the Korea Industrial Bank.
3. Data Preparation Phase
Fifty-six financial ratios were identified by the researchers through a search of the literature
on bankruptcy prediction 16 of which were then dropped due to duplication. There remained
40 financial ratios in the data set including measures of growth profitability safety/leverage
activity/efficiency and productivity.
4. Modeling Phase
Separate decision tree models were applied to the normal-conditions data and the crisisconditions data. As we shall learn in Chapter 6 decision tree models can easily generate rule
22 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
sets. Some of the rules uncovered for the normal-conditions data were as follows:
 If the productivity of capital is greater than 19.65 predict nonbankrupt with 86%
confidence.
 If the ratio of cash flow to total assets is greater than -5.65 predict nonbankrupt with
95% confidence.
 If the productivity of capital is at or below 19.65 and the ratio of cash flow to total assets
is at or below -5.65 predict bankrupt with 84% confidence.
Some of the rules uncovered for the crisis-conditions data were as follows:
 If the productivity of capital is greater than 20.61 predict nonbankrupt with 91%
confidence.
 If the ratio of cash flow to liabilities is greater than 2.64 predict nonbankrupt with 85%
confidence.
 If the ratio of fixed assets to stockholders equity and long-term liabilities is greater than
87.23 predict nonbankrupt with 86% confidence.
 If the productivity of capital is at or below 20.61 and the ratio of cash flow to liabilities
is at or below 2.64 and the ratio of fixed assets to stockholders equity and long-term
liabilities is at or below 87.23 predict bankrupt with 84% confidence.
Cash flow and productivity of capital were found to be important regardless of the economic conditions. While cash flow is well known in the bankruptcy prediction literature the
identification of productivity of capital was relatively rare which therefore demanded further
verification.
5. Evaluation Phase
The researchers convened an expert panel of financial specialists which unanimously selected
productivity of capital as the most important attribute for differentiating firms in danger of
bankruptcy from other firms. Thus the unexpected results discovered by the decision tree
model were verified by the experts.
To ensure that the model was generalizable to the population of all Korean manufacturing
firms a control sample of nonbankrupt firms was selected and the attributes of the control
sample were compared to those of the companies in the data set. It was found that the control samples average assets and average number of employees were within 20% of the data
sample.
Finally the researchers applied multiple discriminant analysis as a performance benchmark.
Many of the 40 financial ratios were found to be significant predictors of bankruptcy and the
final discriminant function included variables identified by the decision tree model.
6. Deployment Phase
There was no deployment identified per se. As mentioned earlier deployment is often at
the discretion of users. However because of this research financial institutions in Korea are
now better aware of the predictors for bankruptcy for crisis conditions as opposed to normal
conditions.
WHAT TASKS CAN DATA MINING ACCOMPLISH 23
CASE STUDY 5
PROFILING THE TOURISM MARKET USING k-MEANS
CLUSTERING ANALYSIS [23]
1. Business/Research Understanding Phase
The researchers Simon Hudson and Brent Ritchie of the University of Calgary Alberta
Canada are interested in studying intraprovince tourist behavior in Alberta. They would like
to create profiles of domestic Albertan tourists based on the decision behavior of the tourists.
The overall goal of the study was to form a quantitative basis for the development of an
intraprovince marketing campaign sponsored by Travel Alberta. Toward this goal the main
objectives were to determine which factors were important in choosing destinations in Alberta
to evaluate the domestic perceptions of the Alberta vacation product and to attempt to
comprehend the travel decision-making process.
2. Data Understanding Phase
The data were collected in late 1999 using a phone survey of 13445 Albertans. The respondents
were screened according to those who were over 18 and had traveled for leisure at least
80 kilometers for at least one night within Alberta in the past year. Only 3071 of these 13445
completed the survey and were eligible for inclusion in the study.
3. Data Preparation Phase
One of the survey questions asked the respondents to indicate to what extent each of the factors
from a list of 13 factors most influence their travel decisions. These were then considered to
be variables upon which the cluster analysis was performed and included such factors as the
quality of accommodations school holidays and weather conditions.
4. Modeling Phase
Clustering is a natural method for generating segment profiles. The researchers chose k-means
clustering since that algorithm is quick and efficient as long as you know the number of
clusters you expect to find. They explored between two and six cluster models before settling
on a five-cluster solution as best reflecting reality. Brief profiles of the clusters are as follows:
 Cluster 1: the young urban outdoor market. Youngest of all clusters equally balanced
genderwise with school schedules and budgets looming large in their travel decisions.
 Cluster 2: the indoor leisure traveler market. Next youngest and very female mostly
married with children with visiting family and friends a major factor in travel plans.
 Cluster 3: the children-first market. More married and more children than any other
cluster with childrens sports and competition schedules having great weight in deciding
where to travel in Alberta.
 Cluster 4: the fair-weather-friends market. Second-oldest slightly more male group
with weather conditions influencing travel decisions.
 Cluster 5: the older cost-conscious traveler market. The oldest of the clusters most
influenced by cost/value considerations and a secure environment when making Alberta
travel decisions.
24 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
5. Evaluation Phase
Discriminant analysis was used to verify the reality of the cluster categorizations correctly
classifying about 93% of subjects into the right clusters. The discriminant analysis also showed
that the differences between clusters were statistically significant.
6. Deployment Phase
These study findings resulted in the launching of a new marketing campaign Alberta Made to
Order based on customizing the marketing to the cluster types uncovered in the data mining.
More than 80 projects were launched through a cooperative arrangement between government
and business. Alberta Made to Order television commercials have now been viewed about
20 times by over 90% of adults under 55. Travel Alberta later found an increase of over 20%
in the number of Albertans who indicated Alberta as a top-of-the-mind travel destination.
REFERENCES
1. Peter Fabris Advanced navigation CIO Magazine May 15 1998 http://www.cio
.com/archive/051598
-mining.html.
2. Bill Clinton New York University speech Salon.com December 6 2002 http://www
.salon.com/politics/feature/2002/12/06/clinton/print.html.
3. Mining Data to Save Children with Brain Tumors SPSS Inc. http://spss.com/
success/.
4. The Gartner Group www.gartner.com.
5. David Hand Heikki Mannila and Padhraic Smyth Principles of Data Mining MIT Press
Cambridge MA 2001.
6. Peter Cabena Pablo Hadjinian Rolf Stadler Jaap Verhees and Alessandro Zanasi Discovering Data Mining: From Concept to Implementation Prentice Hall Upper Saddle River
NJ 1998.
7. Rachel Konrad Data mining: Digging user info for gold ZDNET News February 7 2001
http://zdnet.com.com/2100-11-528032.htmllegacy=zdnn.
8. The Technology Review Ten MIT Technology Review January/February 2001.
9. Jennifer Mateyaschuk The 1999 National IT Salary Survey: Pay up Information Week
http://www.informationweek.com/731/salsurvey.htm.
10. The Boston Celtics http://www.nba.com/celtics/.
11. Peter Gwynne Digging for data Think Research domino.watson.ibm.com/
comm/wwwr
-thinkresearch.nsf/pages/datamine296.html.
12. John Naisbitt Megatrends 6th ed. Warner Books New York 1986.
13. Michael Berry and Gordon Linoff Data Mining Techniques for Marketing Sales and
Customer Support Wiley Hoboken NJ 1997.
14. Michael Berry and Gordon Linoff Mastering Data Mining Wiley Hoboken NJ 2000.
15. Quoted in: Mihael Ankerst The perfect data mining tool: Interactive or automated Report
on the SIGKDD-2002 Panel SIGKDD Explorations Vol. 5 No. 1 July 2003.
16. Peter Chapman Julian Clinton Randy Kerber Thomas Khabaza Thomas Reinart
Colin Shearer and Rudiger Wirth CRISPDM Step-by-Step Data Mining Guide 2000
http://www.crisp-dm.org/.
17. Jochen Hipp and Guido Lindner Analyzing warranty claims of automobiles: an application description following the CRISPDM data mining process in Proceedings of the
EXERCISES 25
5th International Computer Science Conference ICSC 99 pp. 3140 Hong Kong December 1315 1999 C Springer.
18. Jen Que Louie President of Nautilus Systems Inc. www.nautilus-systems.com
testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Technology Information Policy Intergovernmental Relations and Census Congressional Testimony March
25 2003.
19. www.Claritas.com.
20. Alan M. Safer A comparison of two data mining techniques to predict abnormal stock
market returns Intelligent Data Analysis Vol. 7 pp. 313 2003.
21. Sasha Ivkovic John Yearwood and Andrew Stranieri Discovering interesting association
rules from legal databases Information and Communication Technology Law Vol. 11
No. 1 2002.
22. Tae Kyung Sung Namsik Chang and Gunhee Lee Dynamics of modeling in data mining: interpretive approach to bankruptcy prediction Journal of Management Information
Systems Vol. 16 No. 1 pp. 6385 1999.
23. Simon Hudson and Brent Richie Understanding the domestic market using cluster analysis:
a case study of the marketing efforts of Travel Alberta Journal of Vacation Marketing
Vol. 8 No. 3 pp. 263276 2002.
EXERCISES
1. Refer to the Bank of America example early in the chapter. Which data mining task or
tasks are implied in identifying the type of marketing approach for a particular customer
based on the customers individual profile Which tasks are not explicitly relevant
2. For each of the following identify the relevant data mining tasks:
a. The Boston Celtics would like to approximate how many points their next opponent
will score against them.
b. A military intelligence officer is interested in learning about the respective proportions
of Sunnis and Shias in a particular strategic region.
c. A NORAD defense computer must decide immediately whether a blip on the radar is
a flock of geese or an incoming nuclear missile.
d. A political strategist is seeking the best groups to canvass for donations in a particular
county.
e. A homeland security official would like to determine whether a certain sequence of
financial and residence moves implies a tendency to terrorist acts.
f. A Wall Street analyst has been asked to find out the expected change in stock price for
a set of companies with similar price/earnings ratios.
3. For each of the following meetings explain which phase in the CRISPDM process is
represented:
a. Managers want to know by next week whether deployment will take place. Therefore
analysts meet to discuss how useful and accurate their model is.
b. The data mining project manager meets with the data warehousing manager to discuss
how the data will be collected.
c. The data mining consultant meets with the vice president for marketing who says that
he would like to move forward with customer relationship management.
26 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION TO DATA MINING
d. The data mining project manager meets with the production line supervisor to discuss
implementation of changes and improvements.
e. The analysts meet to discuss whether the neural network or decision tree models should
be applied.
4. Discuss the need for human direction of data mining. Describe the possible consequences
of relying on completely automatic data analysis tools.
5. CRISPDM is not the only standard process for data mining. Research an alternative
methodology. Hint: SEMMA from the SAS Institute. Discuss the similarities and differences with CRISPDM.
6. Discuss the lessons drawn from Case Study 1. Why do you think the author chose a case
study where the road was rocky and the results less than overwhelming
7. Consider the business understanding phase of Case Study 2.
a. Restate the research question in your own words.
b. Describe the possible consequences for any given data mining scenario of the data
analyst not completely understanding the business or research problem.
8. Discuss the evaluation method used for Case Study 3 in light of Exercise 4.
9. Examine the association rules uncovered in Case Study 4.
a. Which association rule do you think is most useful under normal conditions Under
crisis conditions
b. Describe how these association rules could be used to help decrease the rate of company
failures in Korea.
10. Examine the clusters found in Case Study 5.
a. Which cluster do you find yourself or your relatives in
b. Describe how you would use the information from the clusters to increase tourism in
Alberta.
CHAPTER 2
DATA PREPROCESSING
WHY DO WE NEED TO PREPROCESS THE DATA
DATA CLEANING
HANDLING MISSING DATA
IDENTIFYING MISCLASSIFICATIONS
GRAPHICAL METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING OUTLIERS
DATA TRANSFORMATION
NUMERICAL METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING OUTLIERS
Chapter 1 introduced us to data mining and the CRISPDM standard process for data
mining model development. The case studies we looked at in Chapter 1 gave us an idea
of how businesses and researchers apply phase 1 in the data mining process business
understanding or research understanding. We saw examples of how businesses and
researchers first enunciate project objectives then translate these objectives into the
formulation of a data mining problem definition and finally prepare a preliminary
strategy for achieving these objectives.
Here in Chapter 2 we examine the next two phases of the CRISPDM standard
process data understanding and data preparation. We show how to evaluate the quality of the data clean the raw data deal with missing data and perform transformations
on certain variables.
All of Chapter 3 is devoted to this very important aspect of the data understanding. The heart of any data mining project is the modeling phase which we begin
examining in Chapter 4.
WHY DO WE NEED TO PREPROCESS THE DATA
Much of the raw data contained in databases is unpreprocessed incomplete and noisy.
For example the databases may contain:
 Fields that are obsolete or redundant
 Missing values
Discovering Knowledge in Data: An Introduction to Data Mining By Daniel T. Larose
ISBN 0-471-66657-2 Copyright C 2005 John Wiley & Sons Inc.
27
28 CHAPTER 2 DATA PREPROCESSING
 Outliers
 Data in a form not suitable for data mining models
 Values not consistent with policy or common sense.
To be useful for data mining purposes the databases need to undergo preprocessing in the form of data cleaning and data transformation. Data mining often
deals with data that hasnt been looked at for years so that much of the data contains field values that have expired are no longer relevant or are simply missing.
The overriding objective is to minimize GIGO: to minimize the garbage that gets
into our model so that we can minimize the amount of garbage that our models give
out.
Dorian Pyle in his book Data Preparation for Data Mining [1] estimates that
data preparation alone accounts for 60% of all the time and effort expanded in the
entire data mining process. In this chapter we examine two principal methods for
preparing the data to be mined data cleaning and data transformation.
DATA CLEANING
To illustrate the need to clean up data lets take a look at some of the types of errors
that could creep into even a tiny data set such as that in Table 2.1. Lets discuss
attribute by attribute some of the problems that have found their way into the data
set in Table 2.1. The customer ID variable seems to be fine. What about zip
Lets assume that we are expecting all of the customers in the database to have the
usual five-numeral U.S. zip code. Now customer 1002 has this strange to American
eyes zip code of J2S7K7. If we were not careful we might be tempted to classify this
unusual value as an error and toss it out until we stop to think that not all countries
use the same zip code format. Actually this is the zip code of St. Hyancinthe Quebec
Canada so probably represents real data from a real customer. What has evidently
occurred is that a French-Canadian customer has made a purchase and put their home
zip code down in the field required. Especially in this era of the North American Free
Trade Agreement we must be ready to expect unusual values in fields such as zip
codes which vary from country to country.
What about the zip code for customer 1004 We are unaware of any countries
that have four-digit zip codes such as the 6269 indicated here so this must be an error
TABLE 2.1 Can You Find Any Problems in This Tiny Data Set
Customer ID Zip Gender Income Age Marital Status Transaction Amount
1001 10048 M 75000 C M 5000
1002 J2S7K7 F -40000 40 W 4000
1003 90210 10000000 45 S 7000
1004 6269 M 50000 0 S 1000
1005 55101 F 99999 30 D 3000
DATA CLEANING 29
right Probably not. Zip codes for the New England states begin with the numeral 0.
Unless the zip code field is defined to be character text and not numeric the software
will probably chop off the leading zero which is apparently what happened here. The
zip code is probably 06269 which refers to Storrs Connecticut home of the University
of Connecticut.
The next field gender contains a missing value for customer 1003. We detail
methods for dealing with missing values later in the chapter.
The income field which we assume is measuring annual gross income has three
potentially anomalous values. First customer 1003 is shown as having an income of
$10000000 per year. Although entirely possible especially when considering the
customers zip code 90210 Beverly Hills this value of income is nevertheless an
outlier an extreme data value. Certain statistical and data mining modeling techniques
do not function smoothly in the presence of outliers we examine methods of handling
outliers later in the chapter.
Poverty is one thing but it is rare to find an income that is negative as our
poor customer 1004 has. Unlike customer 1003s income customer 1004s reported
income of -$40000 lies beyond the field bounds for income and therefore must be
an error. It is unclear how this error crept in with perhaps the most likely explanation
being that the negative sign is a stray data entry error. However we cannot be sure and
should approach this value cautiously attempting to communicate with the database
manager most familiar with the database history.
So what is wrong with customer 1005s income of $99999 Perhaps nothing
it may in fact be valid. But if all the other incomes are rounded to the nearest $5000
why the precision with customer 1005 Often in legacy databases certain specified
values are meant to be codes for anomalous entries such as missing values. Perhaps
99999 was coded in an old database to mean missing. Again we cannot be sure and
should again refer to the wetware.
Finally are we clear as to which unit of measure the income variable is measured
in Databases often get merged sometimes without bothering to check whether such
merges are entirely appropriate for all fields. For example it is quite possible that
customer 1002 with the Canadian zip code has an income measured in Canadian
dollars not U.S. dollars.
The age field has a couple of problems. Although all the other customers have
numerical values for age customer 1001s age of C probably reflects an earlier categorization of this mans age into a bin labeled C. The data mining software will definitely not like this categorical value in an otherwise numerical field and we will have
to resolve this problem somehow. How about customer 1004s age of 0 Perhaps there
is a newborn male living in Storrs Connecticut who has made a transaction of $1000.
More likely the age of this person is probably missing and was coded as 0 to indicate
this or some other anomalous condition e.g. refused to provide the age information.
Of course keeping an age field in a database is a minefield in itself since the
passage of time will quickly make the field values obsolete and misleading. It is better
to keep date-type fields such as birthdate in a database since these are constant and
may be transformed into ages when needed.
The marital status field seems fine right Maybe not. The problem lies in the
meaning behind these symbols. We all think we know what these symbols mean but
30 CHAPTER 2 DATA PREPROCESSING
are sometimes surprised. For example if you are in search of cold water in a rest room
in Montreal and turn on the faucet marked C you may be in for a surprise since the
C stands for chaud which is French for hot. There is also the problem of ambiguity.
In Table 2.1 for example does the S for customers 1003 and 1004 stand for single
or separated
The transaction amount field seems satisfactory as long as we are confident
that we know what unit of measure is being used and that all records are transacted
in this unit.
HANDLING MISSING DATA
Missing data is a problem that continues to plague data analysis methods. Even as
our analysis methods gain sophistication we continue to encounter missing values
in fields especially in databases with a large number of fields. The absence of information is rarely beneficial. All things being equal more data is almost always better.
Therefore we should think carefully about how we handle the thorny issue of missing
data.
To help us tackle this problem we will introduce ourselves to a new data
set the cars data set originally compiled by Barry Becker and Ronny Kohavi
of Silicon Graphics and available at the SGI online data repository at www.sgi
.com/tech/mlc/db. The data set also available on the book series Web site accompanying the text consists of information about 261 automobiles manufactured
in the 1970s and 1980s including gas mileage number of cylinders cubic inches
horsepower and so on.
Suppose however that some of the field values were missing for certain records.
Figure  provides a peek at the first 10 records in the data set with some of
Figure Some of our field values are missing!
HANDLING MISSING DATA 
the field values missing indicated in blue. The software we will be using in this
section for missing value analysis is Insightful Miner by Insightful Corporation

A common method of handling missing values is simply to omit from the
analysis the records or fields with missing values. However this may be dangerous
since the pattern of missing values may in fact be systematic and simply deleting
records with missing values would lead to a biased subset of the data. Further it seems
like a waste to omit the information in all the other fields just because one field value
is missing. Therefore data analysts have turned to methods that would replace the
missing value with a value substituted according to various criteria.
Insightful Miner offers a choice of replacement values for missing data:
1. Replace the missing value with some constant specified by the analyst.
2. Replace the missing value with the field mean for numerical variables or the
mode for categorical variables.
3. Replace the missing values with a value generated at random from the variable
distribution observed.
Lets take a look at the results for each of the three methods. Figure 2.2 shows
the result of replacing the missing values with the constant 0.00 for the numerical
variables and the label missing for the categorical variables. Figure 2.3 illustrates
how the missing values may be replaced with the respective field means and modes.
The variable cylinders is categorical with mode 4 so the software replaces the missing cylinder values with cylinder = 4. Cubicinches on the other hand is continuous numerical so that the software replaces the missing cubicinches values with
cubicinches = 200.65 which is the mean of all 258 nonmissing values of that variable.
Isnt it nice to have the software take care of your missing data problems like
this In a way certainly. However dont lose sight of the fact that the software is
Figure 2.2 Replacing missing field values with user-defined constants.
32 CHAPTER 2 DATA PREPROCESSING
Figure 2.3 Replacing missing field values with means or modes.
creating information on the spot actually fabricating data to fill in the holes in the
data set. Choosing the field mean as a substitute for whatever value would have been
there may sometimes work out well. However the end users and publication readers
need to know that this process has taken place.
Further the mean may not always be the best choice for what constitutes a
typical value. For example if many missing values are replaced with the mean
the resulting confidence levels for statistical inference will be overoptimistic since
measures of spread will be reduced artificially. It must be stressed that replacing
missing values is a gamble and the benefits must be weighed against the possible
invalidity of the results.
demonstrates how Insightful Miner can replace missing
values with values generated at random from the variable distribution observed. Note
in Figure 2.3 how all four of the missing cylinder values were replaced with the same
value cylinder = 4 whereas in Figure  the missing cylinder values were replaced
with various values drawn proportionately from the distribution of cylinder values.
In the long run this method is probably superior to the mean substitution since
among other reasons the measures of center and spread should remain closer to the
original.
This capacity to replace missing values with random draws from the distribution
is one of the benefits of Insightful Miner. However there is no guarantee that the resulting records would make sense. For example the random values drawn in Figure 2.4
make sense record-wise but it was certainly possible that record 5 could have drawn
cylinders = 8 with something like cubicinches = 82 which would be a strange engine
indeed! Therefore other more elaborate methods exist that strive to replace missing
values more precisely and accurately.
For example there are methods that ask What would be the most likely value for
this missing value given all the other attributes for a particular record For instance an

Figure 2.4 Replacing missing field values with random draws from the distribution of the
variable.
American car with 300 cubic inches and 150 horsepower would probably be expected
to have more cylinders than a Japanese car with 100 cubic inches and 90 horsepower.
For a discussion of these and other methods including Bayesian estimation refer to
Statistical Analysis with Missing Data [2].
Let us look at an example of checking the classification labels on the categorical
variables to make sure that they are all valid and consistent. One of the functions
of Insightful Miners missing values node is to display a frequency distribution of
the categorical variables available. For example the frequency distribution of the
categorical variable origin where Insightful Miners missing values node is applied
to the cars data set is given in Table  The frequency distribution shows five

classes: USA France US Europe and Japan. However two of the classes USA and France have a count of only one automobile each. What is clearly happening here is
that two of the records have been classified inconsistently with respect to the origin of manufacture. To maintain consistency with the remainder of the data set the record with origin USA should have been labeled US and the record with origin France
should have been labeled Europe.
GRAPHICAL METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING OUTLIERS
Outliers are extreme values that lie near the limits of the data range or go against
the trend of the remaining data. Identifying outliers is important because they may
represent errors in data entry. Also even if an outlier is a valid data point and not
in error certain statistical methods are sensitive to the presence of outliers and may
deliver unstable results. Neural networks benefit from normalization as do algorithms
that make use of distance measures such as the k-nearest neighbor algorithm.
One graphical method for identifying outliers for numeric variables is to examine a histogram of the variable. Figure 2.5 shows a histogram generated of the vehicle
weights from the cars data set. There appears to be one lonely vehicle in the extreme
left tail of the distribution with a vehicle weight in the hundreds of pounds rather than
in the thousands. Examining the statistics provided by Insightful Miner we find the
minimum weight to be for a vehicle of  pounds which is undoubtedly our little
outlier in the lower tail. As 192.5 pounds is a little light for an automobile we would
tend to doubt the validity of this information. Perusal of the weightlbs field shows that
unlike our outlier all the other vehicles have their weight recorded in whole numbers
can you find the outlier


Figure 2.6 Scatter plot of mpg against weightlbs shows two outliers.
with no decimals. We can therefore surmise that perhaps the weight was originally
1925 pounds with the decimal inserted somewhere along the line. We cannot be
certain however and further investigation into the data sources is called for.
Sometimes two-dimensional scatter plots can help to reveal outliers in more
than one variable. The scatter plot of mpg against weightlbs shown in Figure 2.6
seems to have netted two outliers. Most of the data points cluster together along the
horizontal axis except for two outliers. The one on the left is the same vehicle as that
identified in Figure 2.5 weighing only  pounds. The outlier in the upper right
corner is something new: a car that gets over 500 miles per gallon! Now that would
have been big news at any time especially in the energy crisis days of the 1970s when
this data was abstracted. Clearly unless this vehicle runs on dilithium crystals we
are looking at a data entry error.
We shall examine numerical methods for identifying outliers but we need to
pick up a few tools first.
DATA TRANSFORMATION
Variables tend to have ranges that vary greatly from each other. For example if we are
interested in major league baseball players batting averages will range from zero to
less than 0.400 while the number of home runs hit in a season will range from zero
to around 70. For some data mining algorithms such differences in the ranges will
lead to a tendency for the variable with greater range to have undue influence on the
results.
Therefore data miners should normalize their numerical variables to standardize the scale of effect each variable has on the results. There are several techniques
36 CHAPTER 2 DATA PREPROCESSING
for normalization and we shall examine two of the more prevalent methods. Let X
refer to our original field value and X* refer to the normalized field value.
MinMax Normalization
Minmax normalization works by seeing how much greater the field value is than
the minimum value minX and scaling this difference by the range. That is

For example consider the time-to-60 variable from the cars data set which
measures how long in seconds each automobile takes to reach 60 miles per hour.
Lets find the minmax normalization for three automobiles having times-to-60 of 8
15.548 seconds and 25 seconds respectively. Refer to Figure 2.7 a histogram of the
variable time-to-60 along with some summary statistics.
 For a drag-racing-ready vehicle which takes only 8 seconds the field minimum to reach 60 mph the minmax normalization is

From this we can learn that data values which represent the minimum for the
variable will have a minmax normalization value of zero.
Figure 2.7 Histogram of time-to-60 with summary statistics.
 For an average vehicle if any which takes exactly seconds the
variable average to reach 60 mph the minmax normalization is



This tells us that we may expect variables values near the center of the distribution to have a minmax normalization value near 0.5.
 For an Ill get there when Im ready vehicle which takes 25 seconds the
variable maximum to reach 60 mph the minmax normalization is

the Senate chairs in the Senate Square and cook themselves meals
immediately increases. How much then must the probability of fire be
increased in an abandoned wooden town where foreign troops are
quartered. Le patriotisme feroce de Rostopchine and the barbarity of

of Moscow by making any individual or any group of people
responsible for it. Moscow was burned because it found itself in a city resulted in fires and looting and the destruction of both the
army and the wealthy city. 

SDX
 For the vehicle that takes only 8 seconds to reach 60 mph the Z-score standardization is:

open its paw and let go of its nuts. Ten minutes after each regiment
had entered a Moscow district not a soldier or officer was left.
Men in military uniforms and Hessian boots could be seen through the
windows laughing and walking through the rooms. In cellars and
storerooms similar men were busy among the provisions and in the
yards unlocking or breaking open coach house and stable doors
lighting fires in kitchens and kneading and baking bread with
rolled-up sleeves and cooking or frightening amusing or discipline  motives  fastened  introduction  converted  wilderness  confused  fancied  offices  slip  revolution  wedding  girl's  farmer  silently  fires  wept  behalf  reckon  responded  uncertain  neglected  stroke  exquisite  engagement  dirty  rolling  platform  messenger  privilege  admirable  offers  mischief  physician  imposed  organized  covering  student  daring  cave  wars  convey  he'll  sincere  tradition  gravely  combined  gallant  sensation  travelling  charges  submit  tragedy  specific  commander  inn  stiff  accompany  score  virgin  farewell  paradise  villages  hunger  trembled  favorite  criticism  proprietary  customs  cotton  ruth  hospital  restrictions  outward  impressed  blows  plains  flashed  rent  prey  owed  longing  musical  satisfactory  ridiculous  sheet  disgrace  colored  shouldn't  originally  samuel  wages  papa  gas  inevitable  extensive  leisure  deadly  chin  claimed  
glow  husband's  emotions  adam  jealousy  leaf  publication  englishman  allah  jones  hostile  wandered  railway  translation  procession  betrayed  pound  admired  elected  pierre  sunk  ruins  eastern  roses  citizen  reminded  deceived  tables  beach  starting  funeral  arrested  flour  feature  correspondence  consisted  counted  reserve  proceedings  roar  romantic  twenty five  hut  strangely  absorbed  propose  seats  bark  reception  pleasing  attained  wake  research  prayed  monarch  clothing  dollar  illness  calmly  obeyed  heartily  pressing  daylight  warriors  jest  abruptly  washed  comment  metal  preparations  nerves  solution  pretended  sixteen  assembly  tobacco  entity  dwelling  depart  swung  bitterly  alteration  colony  disclaimers  wing  peaceful  lion  opportunities  alarmed  furnish  resting  accused  culture  writings  dwelt  conquered  trick  trusted  column  financial  

cunning  preparation  drama  joke  entertained  mist  hypertext  shell  medicine  proofread  nest  reverence  situated  yielded  conceive  appointment  lessons  fetch  tomb  candle  offence  coarse  heap  mixture  homes  model  men's  defect  destined  occasional  fourteen  hint  knights  solicit  dreamed  objection  craft  acid  namely  asia  neglect  data  weapon  confessed  arrangements  repose  complying  copied  pink  user  heels  grandfather  other's  income  i e  regards  streams  vigorous  accepting  bishop  lightning  authors  flames  observations  compressed  sport  powder  beds  orange  painting  shout  austria  bath  careless  chap  derivative  roused  primitive  doorway  climbed  volumes  vulgar  arguments  st  sunset  convenient  mail  recalled  wrapped  abode  planted  paint  surrender  establish  mild  promptly  appearing  department  parish  stephen    
To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler All emotions and that one particularly were abhorrent to his cold precise but admirably balanced mind He was I take it the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position He never spoke of the softer passions save with a gibe and a sneer They were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the veil from mens motives and actions But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results Grit in a sensitive instrument or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his And yet there was but one woman to him and that woman was the late Irene Adler of dubious and questionable memory

I had seen little of Holmes lately My marriage had drifted us away from each other My own complete happiness and the home centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment were sufficient to absorb all my attention while Holmes who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul remained in our lodgings in Baker Street buried among his old books and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition the drowsiness of the drug and the fierce energy of his own keen nature He was still as ever deeply attracted by the study of crime and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland Beyond these signs of his activity however which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press I knew little of my former friend and companion

One night--it was on the twentieth of March 1888--I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice) when my way led me through Baker Street As I passed the well-remembered door which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers His rooms were brilliantly lit and even as I looked up I saw his tall spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind He was pacing the room swiftly eagerly with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him To me who knew his every mood and habit his attitude and manner told their own story He was at work again He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own

His manner was not effusive It seldom was; but he was glad I think to see me With hardly a word spoken but with a kindly eye he waved me to an armchair threw across his case of cigars and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion

Wedlock suits you he remarked I think Watson that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you

Seven! I answered

Indeed I should have thought a little more Just a trifle more I fancy Watson And in practice again I observe You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness

Then how do you know?

I see it I deduce it How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?

My dear Holmes said I this is too much You would certainly have been burned had you lived a few centuries ago It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess but as I have changed my clothes I cant imagine how you deduce it As to Mary Jane she is incorrigible and my wife has given her notice but there again I fail to see how you work it out

He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long nervous hands together

It is simplicity itself said he; my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe just where the firelight strikes it the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it Hence you see my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey As to your practice if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope I must be dull indeed if I do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession

I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction When I hear you give your reasons I remarked the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours

Quite so he answered lighting a cigarette and throwing himself down into an armchair You see but you do not observe The distinction is clear For example you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room

Frequently

How often?

Well some hundreds of times

Then how many are there?

How many? I dont know

Quite so! You have not observed And yet you have seen That is just my point Now I know that there are seventeen steps because I have both seen and observed By the way since you are interested in these little problems and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences you may be interested in this He threw over a sheet of thick pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table It came by the last post said he Read it aloud

The note was undated and without either signature or address

There will call upon you to-night at a quarter to eight oclock it said a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated This account of you we have from all quarters received Be in your chamber then at that hour and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask

This is indeed a mystery I remarked What do you imagine that it means?

I have no data yet It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories instead of theories to suit facts But the note itself What do you deduce from it?

I carefully examined the writing and the paper upon which it was written

The man who wrote it was presumably well to do I remarked endeavouring to imitate my companions processes Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet It is peculiarly strong and stiff

Peculiar--that is the very word said Holmes It is not an English paper at all Hold it up to the light

I did so and saw a large E with a small g a P and a large G with a small t woven into the texture of the paper

What do you make of that? asked Holmes

The name of the maker no doubt; or his monogram rather

Not at all The G with the small t stands for Gesellschaft which is the German for Company It is a customary contraction like our Co P of course stands for Papier Now for the Eg Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves Eglow Eglonitz--here we are Egria It is in a German-speaking country--in Bohemia not far from Carlsbad Remarkable as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein and for its numerous glass-factories and paper-mills Ha ha my boy what do you make of that? His eyes sparkled and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette

The paper was made in Bohemia I said

Precisely And the man who wrote the note is a German Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence--This account of you we have from all quarters received A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs It only remains therefore to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face And here he comes if I am not mistaken to resolve all our doubts

As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses hoofs and grating wheels against the curb followed by a sharp pull at the bell Holmes whistled

A pair by the sound said he Yes he continued glancing out of the window A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties A hundred and fifty guineas apiece Theres money in this case Watson if there is nothing else

I think that I had better go Holmes

Not a bit Doctor Stay where you are I am lost without my Boswell And this promises to be interesting It would be a pity to miss it

But your client--

Never mind him I may want your help and so may he Here he comes Sit down in that armchair Doctor and give us your best attention

A slow and heavy step which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage paused immediately outside the door Then there was a loud and authoritative tap

Come in! said Holmes

A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height with the chest and limbs of a Hercules His dress was rich with a richness which would in England be looked upon as akin to bad taste Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl Boots which extended halfway up his calves and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand while he wore across the upper part of his face extending down past the cheekbones a black vizard mask which he had apparently adjusted that very moment for his hand was still raised to it as he entered From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character with a thick hanging lip and a long straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy

You had my note? he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent I told you that I would call He looked from one to the other of us as if uncertain which to address

Pray take a seat said Holmes This is my friend and colleague Dr Watson who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases Whom have I the honour to address?

You may address me as the Count Von Kramm a Bohemian nobleman I understand that this gentleman your friend is a man of honour and discretion whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance If not I should much prefer to communicate with you alone

I rose to go but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair It is both or none said he You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me

The Count shrugged his broad shoulders Then I must begin said he by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history

I promise said Holmes

And I

You will excuse this mask continued our strange visitor The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own

I was aware of it said Holmes dryly

The circumstances are of great delicacy and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe To speak plainly the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein hereditary kings of Bohemia

I was also aware of that murmured Holmes settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes

Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client

If your Majesty would condescend to state your case he remarked I should be better able to advise you

The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation Then with a gesture of desperation he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground You are right he cried; I am the King Why should I attempt to conceal it?

Why indeed? murmured Holmes Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein and hereditary King of Bohemia

But you can understand said our strange visitor sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power I have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting you

Then pray consult said Holmes shutting his eyes once more

The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago during a lengthy visit to Warsaw I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress Irene Adler The name is no doubt familiar to you

Kindly look her up in my index Doctor murmured Holmes without opening his eyes For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes

Let me see! said Holmes Hum! Born in New Jersey in the year 1858 Contralto--hum! La Scala hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw--yes! Retired from operatic stage--ha! Living in London--quite so! Your Majesty as I understand became entangled with this young person wrote her some compromising letters and is now desirous of getting those letters back

Precisely so But how--

Was there a secret marriage?

None

No legal papers or certificates?

None

Then I fail to follow your Majesty If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes how is she to prove their authenticity?

There is the writing

Pooh pooh! Forgery

My private note-paper

Stolen

My own seal

Imitated

My photograph

Bought

We were both in the photograph

Oh dear! That is very bad! Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion

I was mad--insane

You have compromised yourself seriously

I was only Crown Prince then I was young I am but thirty now

It must be recovered

We have tried and failed

Your Majesty must pay It must be bought

She will not sell

Stolen then

Five attempts have been made Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled Twice she has been waylaid There has been no result

No sign of it?

Absolutely none

Holmes laughed It is quite a pretty little problem said he

But a very serious one to me returned the King reproachfully

Very indeed And what does she propose to do with the photograph?

To ruin me

But how?

I am about to be married

So I have heard

To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen second daughter of the King of Scandinavia You may know the strict principles of her family She is herself the very soul of delicacy A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end

And Irene Adler?

Threatens to send them the photograph And she will do it I know that she will do it You do not know her but she has a soul of steel She has the face of the most beautiful of women and the mind of the most resolute of men Rather than I should marry another woman there are no lengths to which she would not go--none

You are sure that she has not sent it yet?

I am sure

And why?

Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed That will be next Monday

Oh then we have three days yet said Holmes with a yawn That is very fortunate as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present Your Majesty will of course stay in London for the present?

Certainly You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm

Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress

Pray do so I shall be all anxiety

Then as to money?

You have carte blanche

Absolutely?

I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph

And for present expenses?

The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table

There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes he said

Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him

And Mademoiselles address? he asked

Is Briony Lodge Serpentine Avenue St Johns Wood

Holmes took a note of it One other question said he Was the photograph a cabinet?

It was

Then good-night your Majesty and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you And good-night Watson he added as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three oclock I should like to chat this little matter over with you

II


At three oclock precisely I was at Baker Street but Holmes had not yet returned The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight oclock in the morning I sat down beside the fire however with the intention of awaiting him however long he might be I was already deeply interested in his inquiry for though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded still the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own Indeed apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation and his keen incisive reasoning which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work and to follow the quick subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head

It was close upon four before the door opened and a drunken-looking groom ill-kempt and side-whiskered with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes walked into the room Accustomed as I was to my friends amazing powers in the use of disguises I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he With a nod he vanished into the bedroom whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable as of old Putting his hands into his pockets he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes

Well really! he cried and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back limp and helpless in the chair

What is it?

Its quite too funny I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning or what I ended by doing

I cant imagine I suppose that you have been watching the habits and perhaps the house of Miss Irene Adler

Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual I will tell you however I left the house a little after eight oclock this morning in the character of a groom out of work There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men Be one of them and you will know all that there is to know I soon found Briony Lodge It is a bijou villa with a garden at the back but built out in front right up to the road two stories Chubb lock to the door Large sitting-room on the right side well furnished with long windows almost to the floor and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open Behind there was nothing remarkable save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view but without noting anything else of interest

I then lounged down the street and found as I expected that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses and received in exchange twopence a glass of half-and-half two fills of shag tobacco and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to

And what of Irene Adler? I asked

Oh she has turned all the mens heads down in that part She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet So say the Serpentine-mews to a man She lives quietly sings at concerts drives out at five every day and returns at seven sharp for dinner Seldom goes out at other times except when she sings Has only one male visitor but a good deal of him He is dark handsome and dashing never calls less than once a day and often twice He is a Mr Godfrey Norton of the Inner Temple See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews and knew all about him When I had listened to all they had to tell I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more and to think over my plan of campaign

This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter He was a lawyer That sounded ominous What was the relation between them and what the object of his repeated visits? Was she his client his friend or his mistress? If the former she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping If the latter it was less likely On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge or turn my attention to the gentlemans chambers in the Temple It was a delicate point and it widened the field of my inquiry I fear that I bore you with these details but I have to let you see my little difficulties if you are to understand the situation

I am following you closely I answered

I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge and a gentleman sprang out He was a remarkably handsome man dark aquiline and moustached--evidently the man of whom I had heard He appeared to be in a great hurry shouted to the cabman to wait and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home

He was in the house about half an hour and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room pacing up and down talking excitedly and waving his arms Of her I could see nothing Presently he emerged looking even more flurried than before As he stepped up to the cab he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly Drive like the devil he shouted first to Gross & Hankeys in Regent Street and then to the Church of St Monica in the Edgeware Road Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!

Away they went and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned and his tie under his ear while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles It hadnt pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment but she was a lovely woman with a face that a man might die for

 The Church of St Monica John she cried and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes

This was quite too good to lose Watson I was just balancing whether I should run for it or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare but I jumped in before he could object The Church of St Monica said I and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes It was twenty-five minutes to twelve and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind

My cabby drove fast I dont think I ever drove faster but the others were there before us The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived I paid the man and hurried into the church There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman who seemed to be expostulating with them They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church Suddenly to my surprise the three at the altar faced round to me and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me

 Thank God he cried Youll do Come! Come!

 What then? I asked

 Come man come only three minutes or it wont be legal

I was half-dragged up to the altar and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear and vouching for things of which I knew nothing and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler spinster to Godfrey Norton bachelor It was all done in an instant and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other while the clergyman beamed on me in front It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now It seems that there had been some informality about their license that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man The bride gave me a sovereign and I mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion

This is a very unexpected turn of affairs said I; and what then?

Well I found my plans very seriously menaced It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part At the church door however they separated he driving back to the Temple and she to her own house I shall drive out in the park at five as usual she said as she left him I heard no more They drove away in different directions and I went off to make my own arrangements

Which are?

Some cold beef and a glass of beer he answered ringing the bell I have been too busy to think of food and I am likely to be busier still this evening By the way Doctor I shall want your co-operation

I shall be delighted

You dont mind breaking the law?

Not in the least

Nor running a chance of arrest?

Not in a good cause

Oh the cause is excellent!

Then I am your man

I was sure that I might rely on you

But what is it you wish?

When Mrs Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you Now he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided I must discuss it while I eat for I have not much time It is nearly five now In two hours we must be on the scene of action Miss Irene or Madame rather returns from her drive at seven We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her

And what then?

You must leave that to me I have already arranged what is to occur There is only one point on which I must insist You must not interfere come what may You understand?

I am to be neutral?

To do nothing whatever There will probably be some small unpleasantness Do not join in it It will end in my being conveyed into the house Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open You are to station yourself close to that open window

Yes

You are to watch me for I will be visible to you

Yes

And when I raise my hand--so--you will throw into the room what I give you to throw and will at the same time raise the cry of fire You quite follow me?

Entirely

It is nothing very formidable he said taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket It is an ordinary plumbers smoke-rocket fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting Your task is confined to that When you raise your cry of fire it will be taken up by quite a number of people You may then walk to the end of the street and I will rejoin you in ten minutes I hope that I have made myself clear?

I am to remain neutral to get near the window to watch you and at the signal to throw in this object then to raise the cry of fire and to wait you at the corner of the street

Precisely

Then you may entirely rely on me

That is excellent I think perhaps it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play

He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman His broad black hat his baggy trousers his white tie his sympathetic smile and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr John Hare alone could have equalled It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume His expression his manner his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed The stage lost a fine actor even as science lost an acute reasoner when he became a specialist in crime

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue It was already dusk and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge waiting for the coming of its occupant The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes succinct description but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected On the contrary for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood it was remarkably animated There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner a scissors-grinder with his wheel two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths

You see remarked Holmes as we paced to and fro in front of the house this marriage rather simplifies matters The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr Godfrey Norton as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess Now the question is Where are we to find the photograph?

Where indeed?

It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her It is cabinet size Too large for easy concealment about a womans dress She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched Two attempts of the sort have already been made We may take it then that she does not carry it about with her

Where then?

Her banker or her lawyer There is that double possibility But I am inclined to think neither Women are naturally secretive and they like to do their own secreting Why should she hand it over to anyone else? She could trust her own guardianship but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man Besides remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days It must be where she can lay her hands upon it It must be in her own house

But it has twice been burgled

Pshaw! They did not know how to look

But how will you look?

I will not look

What then?

I will get her to show me

But she will refuse

She will not be able to But I hear the rumble of wheels It is her carriage Now carry out my orders to the letter

As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge As it pulled up one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper but was elbowed away by another loafer who had rushed up with the same intention A fierce quarrel broke out which was increased by the two guardsmen who took sides with one of the loungers and by the scissors-grinder who was equally hot upon the other side A blow was struck and in an instant the lady who had stepped from her carriage was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground with the blood running freely down his face At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other while a number of better dressed people who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man Irene Adler as I will still call her had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall looking back into the street

Is the poor gentleman much hurt? she asked

He is dead cried several voices

No no theres life in him! shouted another But hell be gone before you can get him to hospital

Hes a brave fellow said a woman They would have had the ladys purse and watch if it hadnt been for him They were a gang and a rough one too Ah hes breathing now

He cant lie in the street May we bring him in marm?

Surely Bring him into the sitting-room There is a comfortable sofa This way please!

Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window The lamps had been lit but the blinds had not been drawn so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me I hardened my heart and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster After all I thought we are not injuring her We are but preventing her from injuring another

Holmes had sat up upon the couch and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air A maid rushed across and threw open the window At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of Fire! The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators well dressed and ill--gentlemen ostlers and servant maids--joined in a general shriek of Fire! Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window I caught a glimpse of rushing figures and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friends arm in mine and to get away from the scene of uproar He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road

You did it very nicely Doctor he remarked Nothing could have been better It is all right

You have the photograph?

I know where it is

And how did you find out?

She showed me as I told you she would

I am still in the dark

I do not wish to make a mystery said he laughing The matter was perfectly simple You of course saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice They were all engaged for the evening

I guessed as much

Then when the row broke out I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand I rushed forward fell down clapped my hand to my face and became a piteous spectacle It is an old trick

That also I could fathom

Then they carried me in She was bound to have me in What else could she do? And into her sitting-room which was the very room which I suspected It lay between that and her bedroom and I was determined to see which They laid me on a couch I motioned for air they were compelled to open the window and you had your chance

How did that help you?

It was all-important When a woman thinks that her house is on fire her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most It is a perfectly overpowering impulse and I have more than once taken advantage of it In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me and also in the Arnsworth Castle business A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of She would rush to secure it The alarm of fire was admirably done The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel She responded beautifully The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull She was there in an instant and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out When I cried out that it was a false alarm she replaced it glanced at the rocket rushed from the room and I have not seen her since I rose and making my excuses escaped from the house I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had come in and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait A little over-precipitance may ruin all

And now? I asked

Our quest is practically finished I shall call with the King to-morrow and with you if you care to come with us We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands

And when will you call?

At eight in the morning She will not be up so that we shall have a clear field Besides we must be prompt for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits I must wire to the King without delay

We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:

Good-night Mister Sherlock Holmes

There were several people on the pavement at the time but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by

Ive heard that voice before said Holmes staring down the dimly lit street Now I wonder who the deuce that could have been

III


I slept at Baker Street that night and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room

You have really got it! he cried grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face

Not yet

But you have hopes?

I have hopes

Then come I am all impatience to be gone

We must have a cab

No my brougham is waiting

Then that will simplify matters We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge

Irene Adler is married remarked Holmes

Married! When?

Yesterday

But to whom?

To an English lawyer named Norton

But she could not love him

I am in hopes that she does

And why in hopes?

Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance If the lady loves her husband she does not love your Majesty If she does not love your Majesty there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majestys plan

It is true And yet--! Well! I wish she had been of my own station! What a queen she would have made! He relapsed into a moody silence which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue

The door of Briony Lodge was open and an elderly woman stood upon the steps She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham

Mr Sherlock Holmes I believe? said she

I am Mr Holmes answered my companion looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze

Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent

What! Sherlock Holmes staggered back white with chagrin and surprise Do you mean that she has left England?

Never to return

And the papers? asked the King hoarsely All is lost

We shall see He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room followed by the King and myself The furniture was scattered about in every direction with dismantled shelves and open drawers as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight Holmes rushed at the bell-pull tore back a small sliding shutter and plunging in his hand pulled out a photograph and a letter The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress the letter was superscribed to Sherlock Holmes Esq To be left till called for My friend tore it open and we all three read it together It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:

MY DEAR MR SHERLOCK HOLMES--You really did it very well You took me in completely Until after the alarm of fire I had not a suspicion But then when I found how I had betrayed myself I began to think I had been warned against you months ago I had been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly be you And your address had been given me Yet with all this you made me reveal what you wanted to know Even after I became suspicious I found it hard to think evil of such a dear kind old clergyman But you know I have been trained as an actress myself Male costume is nothing new to me I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives I sent John the coachman to watch you ran upstairs got into my walking clothes as I call them and came down just as you departed

Well I followed you to your door and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr Sherlock Holmes Then I rather imprudently wished you good-night and started for the Temple to see my husband

We both thought the best resource was flight when pursued by so formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow As to the photograph your client may rest in peace I love and am loved by a better man than he The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged I keep it only to safeguard myself and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future I leave a photograph which he might care to possess; and I remain dear Mr Sherlock Holmes


Very truly yours              
IRENE NORTON nee ADLER

What a woman--oh what a woman! cried the King of Bohemia when we had all three read this epistle Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was? Would she not have made an admirable queen? Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?

From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty said Holmes coldly I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majestys business to a more successful conclusion

On the contrary my dear sir cried the King; nothing could be more successful I know that her word is inviolate The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire

I am glad to hear your Majesty say so

I am immensely indebted to you Pray tell me in what way I can reward you This ring-- He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand

Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly said Holmes

You have but to name it

This photograph!

The King stared at him in amazement

Irenes photograph! he cried Certainly if you wish it

I thank your Majesty Then there is no more to be done in the matter I have the honour to wish you a very good morning He bowed and turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him he set off in my company for his chambers

And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia and how the best plans of Mr Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a womans wit He used to make merry over the cleverness of women but I have not heard him do it of late And when he speaks of Irene Adler or when he refers to her photograph it is always under the honourable title of the woman

ADVENTURE  II  THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE


I had called upon my friend Mr Sherlock Holmes one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout florid-faced elderly gentleman with fiery red hair With an apology for my intrusion I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me

You could not possibly have come at a better time my dear Watson he said cordially

I was afraid that you were engaged

So I am Very much so

Then I can wait in the next room

Not at all This gentleman Mr Wilson has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases and I have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also

The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes

Try the settee said Holmes relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together as was his custom when in judicial moods I know my dear Watson that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle and if you will excuse my saying so somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures

Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me I observed

You will remember that I remarked the other day just before we went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination

A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting

You did Doctor but none the less you must come round to my view for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right Now Mr Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some time You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes and occasionally indeed where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed As far as I have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to Perhaps Mr Wilson you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative I ask you not merely because my friend Dr Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips As a rule when I have heard some slight indication of the course of events I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory In the present instance I am forced to admit that the facts are to the best of my belief unique

The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat As he glanced down the advertisement column with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee I took a good look at the man and endeavoured after the fashion of my companion to read the indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance

I did not gain very much however by my inspection Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman obese pompous and slow He wore rather baggy grey shepherds check trousers a not over-clean black frock-coat unbuttoned in the front and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him Altogether look as I would there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features

Sherlock Holmes quick eye took in my occupation and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour that he takes snuff that he is a Freemason that he has been in China and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately I can deduce nothing else

Mr Jabez Wilson started up in his chair with his forefinger upon the paper but his eyes upon my companion

How in the name of good-fortune did you know all that Mr Holmes? he asked How did you know for example that I did manual labour Its as true as gospel for I began as a ships carpenter

Your hands my dear sir Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left You have worked with it and the muscles are more developed

Well the snuff then and the Freemasonry?

I wont insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that especially as rather against the strict rules of your order you use an arc-and-compass breastpin

Ah of course I forgot that But the writing?

What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?

Well but China?

The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China I have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject That trick of staining the fishes scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China When in addition I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain the matter becomes even more simple

Mr Jabez Wilson laughed heavily Well I never! said he I thought at first that you had done something clever but I see that there was nothing in it after all

I begin to think Watson said Holmes that I make a mistake in explaining Omne ignotum pro magnifico you know and my poor little reputation such as it is will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid Can you not find the advertisement Mr Wilson?

Yes I have got it now he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column Here it is This is what began it all You just read it for yourself sir

I took the paper from him and read as follows:

TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE: On account of the bequest of the late Ezekiah Hopkins of Lebanon Pennsylvania U S A there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of $4 a week for purely nominal services All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years are eligible Apply in person on Monday at eleven oclock to Duncan Ross at the offices of the League 7 Popes Court Fleet Street

What on earth does this mean? I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement

Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair as was his habit when in high spirits It is a little off the beaten track isnt it? said he And now Mr Wilson off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself your household and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes You will first make a note Doctor of the paper and the date

It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27 1890 Just two months ago

Very good Now Mr Wilson?

Well it is just as I have been telling you Mr Sherlock Holmes said Jabez Wilson mopping his forehead; I have a small pawnbrokers business at Coburg Square near the City Its not a very large affair and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living I used to be able to keep two assistants but now I only keep one; and I would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business

What is the name of this obliging youth? asked Sherlock Holmes

His name is Vincent Spaulding and hes not such a youth either Its hard to say his age I should not wish a smarter assistant Mr Holmes; and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I am able to give him But after all if he is satisfied why should I put ideas in his head?

Why indeed? You seem most fortunate in having an employe who comes under the full market price It is not a common experience among employers in this age I dont know that your assistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement

Oh he has his faults too said Mr Wilson Never was such a fellow for photography Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures That is his main fault but on the whole hes a good worker Theres no vice in him

He is still with you I presume?

Yes sir He and a girl of fourteen who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean--thats all I have in the house for I am a widower and never had any family We live very quietly sir the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts if we do nothing more

The first thing that put us out was that advertisement Spaulding he came down into the office just this day eight weeks with this very paper in his hand and he says:

 I wish to the Lord Mr Wilson that I was a red-headed man

 Why that? I asks

 Why says he heres another vacancy on the League of the Red-headed Men Its worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men so that the trustees are at their wits end what to do with the money If my hair would only change colour heres a nice little crib all ready for me to step into

 Why what is it then? I asked You see Mr Holmes I am a very stay-at-home man and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the door-mat In that way I didnt know much of what was going on outside and I was always glad of a bit of news

 Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men? he asked with his eyes open

 Never

 Why I wonder at that for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies

 And what are they worth? I asked

 Oh merely a couple of hundred a year but the work is slight and it need not interfere very much with ones other occupations

Well you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears for the business has not been over good for some years and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy

 Tell me all about it said I

 Well said he showing me the advertisement you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy and there is the address where you should apply for particulars As far as I can make out the League was founded by an American millionaire Ezekiah Hopkins who was very peculiar in his ways He was himself red-headed and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men; so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do

 But said I there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply

 Not so many as you might think he answered You see it is really confined to Londoners and to grown men This American had started from London when he was young and he wanted to do the old town a good turn Then again I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red or dark red or anything but real bright blazing fiery red Now if you cared to apply Mr Wilson you would just walk in; but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds

Now it is a fact gentlemen as you may see for yourselves that my hair is of a very full and rich tint so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me He was very willing to have a holiday so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement

I never hope to see such a sight as that again Mr Holmes From north south east and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk and Popes Court looked like a costers orange barrow I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement Every shade of colour they were--straw lemon orange brick Irish-setter liver clay; but as Spaulding said there were not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint When I saw how many were waiting I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear of it How he did it I could not imagine but he pushed and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd and right up to the steps which led to the office There was a double stream upon the stair some going up in hope and some coming back dejected; but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office

Your experience has been a most entertaining one remarked Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff Pray continue your very interesting statement

There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine He said a few words to each candidate as he came up and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter after all However when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others and he closed the door as we entered so that he might have a private word with us

 This is Mr Jabez Wilson said my assistant and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League

 And he is admirably suited for it the other answered He has every requirement I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine He took a step backward cocked his head on one side and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful Then suddenly he plunged forward wrung my hand and congratulated me warmly on my success

 It would be injustice to hesitate said he You will however I am sure excuse me for taking an obvious precaution With that he seized my hair in both his hands and tugged until I yelled with the pain There is water in your eyes said he as he released me I perceive that all is as it should be But we have to be careful for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint I could tell you tales of cobblers wax which would disgust you with human nature He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled A groan of disappointment came up from below and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager

 My name said he is Mr Duncan Ross and I am myself one of the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor Are you a married man Mr Wilson? Have you a family?

I answered that I had not

His face fell immediately

 Dear me! he said gravely that is very serious indeed! I am sorry to hear you say that The fund was of course for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor

My face lengthened at this Mr Holmes for I thought that I was not to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right

 In the case of another said he the objection might be fatal but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?

 Well it is a little awkward for I have a business already said I

 Oh never mind about that Mr Wilson! said Vincent Spaulding I should be able to look after that for you

 What would be the hours? I asked

 Ten to two

Now a pawnbrokers business is mostly done of an evening Mr Holmes especially Thursday and Friday evening which is just before pay-day; so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings Besides I knew that my assistant was a good man and that he would see to anything that turned up

 That would suit me very well said I And the pay?

 Is $4 a week

 And the work?

 Is purely nominal

 What do you call purely nominal?

 Well you have to be in the office or at least in the building the whole time If you leave you forfeit your whole position forever The will is very clear upon that point You dont comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time

 Its only four hours a day and I should not think of leaving said I

 No excuse will avail said Mr Duncan Ross; neither sickness nor business nor anything else There you must stay or you lose your billet

 And the work?

 Is to copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica There is the first volume of it in that press You must find your own ink pens and blotting-paper but we provide this table and chair Will you be ready to-morrow?

 Certainly I answered

 Then good-bye Mr Jabez Wilson and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to gain He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant hardly knowing what to say or do I was so pleased at my own good fortune

Well I thought over the matter all day and by evening I was in low spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud though what its object might be I could not imagine It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the Encyclopaedia Britannica Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing However in the morning I determined to have a look at it anyhow so I bought a penny bottle of ink and with a quill-pen and seven sheets of foolscap paper I started off for Popes Court

Well to my surprise and delight everything was as right as possible The table was set out ready for me and Mr Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work He started me off upon the letter A and then he left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me At two oclock he bade me good-day complimented me upon the amount that I had written and locked the door of the office after me

This went on day after day Mr Holmes and on Saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my weeks work It was the same next week and the same the week after Every morning I was there at ten and every afternoon I left at two By degrees Mr Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning and then after a time he did not come in at all Still of course I never dared to leave the room for an instant for I was not sure when he might come and the billet was such a good one and suited me so well that I would not risk the loss of it

Eight weeks passed away like this and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica and hoped with diligence that I might get on to the Bs before very long It cost me something in foolscap and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings And then suddenly the whole business came to an end

To an end?

Yes sir And no later than this morning I went to my work as usual at ten oclock but the door was shut and locked with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack Here it is and you can read for yourself

He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper It read in this fashion:


THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

IS

DISSOLVED

October 9 1890


Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter

I cannot see that there is anything very funny cried our client flushing up to the roots of his flaming head If you can do nothing better than laugh at me I can go elsewhere

No no cried Holmes shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen I really wouldnt miss your case for the world It is most refreshingly unusual But there is if you will excuse my saying so something just a little funny about it Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?

I was staggered sir I did not know what to do Then I called at the offices round but none of them seemed to know anything about it Finally I went to the landlord who is an accountant living on the ground floor and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League He said that he had never heard of any such body Then I asked him who Mr Duncan Ross was He answered that the name was new to him

 Well said I the gentleman at No 4

 What the red-headed man?

 Yes

 Oh said he his name was William Morris He was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready He moved out yesterday

 Where could I find him?

 Oh at his new offices He did tell me the address Yes 17 King Edward Street near St Pauls

I started off Mr Holmes but when I got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee-caps and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr William Morris or Mr Duncan Ross

And what did you do then? asked Holmes

I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square and I took the advice of my assistant But he could not help me in any way He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post But that was not quite good enough Mr Holmes I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle so as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it I came right away to you

And you did very wisely said Holmes Your case is an exceedingly remarkable one and I shall be happy to look into it From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear

Grave enough! said Mr Jabez Wilson Why I have lost four pound a week

As far as you are personally concerned remarked Holmes I do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league On the contrary you are as I understand richer by some $30 to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject which comes under the letter A You have lost nothing by them

No sir But I want to find out about them and who they are and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was a prank--upon me It was a pretty expensive joke for them for it cost them two and thirty pounds

We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you And first one or two questions Mr Wilson This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he been with you?

About a month then

How did he come?

In answer to an advertisement

Was he the only applicant?

No I had a dozen

Why did you pick him?

Because he was handy and would come cheap

At half wages in fact

Yes

What is he like this Vincent Spaulding?

Small stout-built very quick in his ways no hair on his face though hes not short of thirty Has a white splash of acid upon his forehead

Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement I thought as much said he Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?

Yes sir He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad

Hum! said Holmes sinking back in deep thought He is still with you?

Oh yes sir; I have only just left him

And has your business been attended to in your absence?

Nothing to complain of sir Theres never very much to do of a morning

That will do Mr Wilson I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two To-day is Saturday and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion

Well Watson said Holmes when our visitor had left us what do you make of it all?

I make nothing of it I answered frankly It is a most mysterious business

As a rule said Holmes the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be It is your commonplace featureless crimes which are really puzzling just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify But I must be prompt over this matter

What are you going to do then? I asked

To smoke he answered It is quite a three pipe problem and I beg that you wont speak to me for fifty minutes He curled himself up in his chair with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep and indeed was nodding myself when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece

Sarasate plays at the St Jamess Hall this afternoon he remarked What do you think Watson? Could your patients spare you for a few hours?

I have nothing to do to-day My practice is never very absorbing

Then put on your hat and come I am going through the City first and we can have some lunch on the way I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French It is introspective and I want to introspect Come along!

We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning It was a poky little shabby-genteel place where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere Three gilt balls and a brown board with JABEZ WILSON in white letters upon a corner house announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids Then he walked slowly up the street and then down again to the corner still looking keenly at the houses Finally he returned to the pawnbrokers and having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times he went up to the door and knocked It was instantly opened by a bright-looking clean-shaven young fellow who asked him to step in

Thank you said Holmes I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand

Third right fourth left answered the assistant promptly closing the door

Smart fellow that observed Holmes as we walked away He is in my judgment the fourth smartest man in London and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third I have known something of him before

Evidently said I Mr Wilsons assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him

Not him

What then?

The knees of his trousers

And what did you see?

What I expected to see

Why did you beat the pavement?

My dear doctor this is a time for observation not for talk We are spies in an enemys country We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it

The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back It was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted

Let me see said Holmes standing at the corner and glancing along the line I should like just to remember the order of the houses here It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London There is Mortimers the tobacconist the little newspaper shop the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank the Vegetarian Restaurant and McFarlanes carriage-building depot That carries us right on to the other block And now Doctor weve done our work so its time we had some play A sandwich and a cup of coffee and then off to violin-land where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony and there are no red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums

My friend was an enthusiastic musician being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit All the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness gently waving his long thin fingers in time to the music while his gently smiling face and his languid dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound Holmes the relentless keen-witted ready-handed criminal agent as it was possible to conceive In his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented as I have often thought the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him The swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy; and as I knew well he was never so truly formidable as when for days on end he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St Jamess Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down

You want to go home no doubt Doctor he remarked as we emerged

Yes it would be as well

And I have some business to do which will take some hours This business at Coburg Square is serious

Why serious?

A considerable crime is in contemplation I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters I shall want your help to-night

At what time?

Ten will be early enough

I shall be at Baker Street at ten

Very well And I say Doctor there may be some little danger so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket He waved his hand turned on his heel and disappeared in an instant among the crowd

I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours but I was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes Here I had heard what he had heard I had seen what he had seen and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought over it all from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copier of the Encyclopaedia down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square and the ominous words with which he had parted from me What was this nocturnal expedition and why should I go armed? Where were we going and what were we to do? I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbrokers assistant was a formidable man--a man who might play a deep game I tried to puzzle it out but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation

It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way across the Park and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street Two hansoms were standing at the door and as I entered the passage I heard the sound of voices from above On entering his room I found Holmes in animated conversation with two men one of whom I recognised as Peter Jones the official police agent while the other was a long thin sad-faced man with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable frock-coat

Ha! Our party is complete said Holmes buttoning up his pea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack Watson I think you know Mr Jones of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you to Mr Merryweather who is to be our companion in to-nights adventure

Were hunting in couples again Doctor you see said Jones in his consequential way Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down

I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase observed Mr Merryweather gloomily

You may place considerable confidence in Mr Holmes sir said the police agent loftily He has his own little methods which are if he wont mind my saying so just a little too theoretical and fantastic but he has the makings of a detective in him It is not too much to say that once or twice as in that business of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure he has been more nearly correct than the official force

Oh if you say so Mr Jones it is all right said the stranger with deference Still I confess that I miss my rubber It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my rubber

I think you will find said Sherlock Holmes that you will play for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet and that the play will be more exciting For you Mr Merryweather the stake will be some $30000; and for you Jones it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands

John Clay the murderer thief smasher and forger Hes a young man Mr Merryweather but he is at the head of his profession and I would rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London Hes a remarkable man is young John Clay His grandfather was a royal duke and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford His brain is as cunning as his fingers and though we meet signs of him at every turn we never know where to find the man himself Hell crack a crib in Scotland one week and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next Ive been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet

I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night Ive had one or two little turns also with Mr John Clay and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession It is past ten however and quite time that we started If you two will take the first hansom Watson and I will follow in the second

Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street

We are close there now my friend remarked This fellow Merryweather is a bank director and personally interested in the matter I thought it as well to have Jones with us also He is not a bad fellow though an absolute imbecile in his profession He has one positive virtue He is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone Here we are and they are waiting for us

We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning Our cabs were dismissed and following the guidance of Mr Merryweather we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door which he opened for us Within there was a small corridor which ended in a very massive iron gate This also was opened and led down a flight of winding stone steps which terminated at another formidable gate Mr Merryweather stopped to light a lantern and then conducted us down a dark earth-smelling passage and so after opening a third door into a huge vault or cellar which was piled all round with crates and massive boxes

You are not very vulnerable from above Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him

Nor from below said Mr Merryweather striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor Why dear me it sounds quite hollow! he remarked looking up in surprise

I must really ask you to be a little more quiet! said Holmes severely You have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes and not to interfere?

The solemn Mr Merryweather perched himself upon a crate with a very injured expression upon his face while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and with the lantern and a magnifying lens began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones A few seconds sufficed to satisfy him for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket

We have at least an hour before us he remarked for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed Then they will not lose a minute for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape We are at present Doctor--as no doubt you have divined--in the cellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks Mr Merryweather is the chairman of directors and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present

It is our French gold whispered the director We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it

Your French gold?

Yes We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose 30000 napoleons from the Bank of France It has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money and that it is still lying in our cellar The crate upon which I sit contains 2000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil Our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject

Which were very well justified observed Holmes And now it is time that we arranged our little plans I expect that within an hour matters will come to a head In the meantime Mr Merryweather we must put the screen over that dark lantern

And sit in the dark?

I am afraid so I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket and I thought that as we were a partie carree you might have your rubber after all But I see that the enemys preparations have gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light And first of all we must choose our positions These are daring men and though we shall take them at a disadvantage they may do us some harm unless we are careful I shall stand behind this crate and do you conceal yourselves behind those Then when I flash a light upon them close in swiftly If they fire Watson have no compunction about shooting them down

I placed my revolver cocked upon the top of the wooden case behind which I crouched Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there ready to flash out at a moments notice To me with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom and in the cold dank air of the vault

They have but one retreat whispered Holmes That is back through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square I hope that you have done what I asked you Jones?

I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door

Then we have stopped all the holes And now we must be silent and wait

What a time it seemed! From comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us My limbs were weary and stiff for I feared to change my position; yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension and my hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions but I could distinguish the deeper heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin sighing note of the bank director From my position I could look over the case in the direction of the floor Suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light

At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement Then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line and then without any warning or sound a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared a white almost womanly hand which felt about in the centre of the little area of light For a minute or more the hand with its writhing fingers protruded out of the floor Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones

Its disappearance however was but momentary With a rending tearing sound one of the broad white stones turned over upon its side and left a square gaping hole through which streamed the light of a lantern Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut boyish face which looked keenly about it and then with a hand on either side of the aperture drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high until one knee rested upon the edge In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion lithe and small like himself with a pale face and a shock of very red hair

Its all clear he whispered Have you the chisel and the bags? Great Scott! Jump Archie jump and Ill swing for it!

Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar The other dived down the hole and I heard the sound of rending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts The light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver but Holmes hunting crop came down on the mans wrist and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor

Its no use John Clay said Holmes blandly You have no chance at all

So I see the other answered with the utmost coolness I fancy that my pal is all right though I see you have got his coat-tails

There are three men waiting for him at the door said Holmes

Oh indeed! You seem to have done the thing very completely I must compliment you

And I you Holmes answered Your red-headed idea was very new and effective

Youll see your pal again presently said Jones Hes quicker at climbing down holes than I am Just hold out while I fix the derbies

I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins Have the goodness also when you address me always to say sir and please 

All right said Jones with a stare and a snigger Well would you please sir march upstairs where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?

That is better said John Clay serenely He made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective

Really Mr Holmes said Mr Merryweather as we followed them from the cellar I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience

I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr John Clay said Holmes I have been at some small expense over this matter which I shall expect the bank to refund but beyond that I am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League

You see Watson he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the League and the copying of the Encyclopaedia must be to get this not over-bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number of hours every day It was a curious way of managing it but really it would be difficult to suggest a better The method was no doubt suggested to Clays ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplices hair The $4 a week was a lure which must draw him and what was it to them who were playing for thousands? They put in the advertisement one rogue has the temporary office the other rogue incites the man to apply for it and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week From the time that I heard of the assistant having come for half wages it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing the situation

But how could you guess what the motive was?

Had there been women in the house I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue That however was out of the question The mans business was a small one and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations and such an expenditure as they were at It must then be something out of the house What could it be? I thought of the assistants fondness for photography and his trick of vanishing into the cellar The cellar! There was the end of this tangled clue Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in London He was doing something in the cellar--something which took many hours a day for months on end What could it be once more? I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building

So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick I was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind It was not in front Then I rang the bell and as I hoped the assistant answered it We have had some skirmishes but we had never set eyes upon each other before I hardly looked at his face His knees were what I wished to see You must yourself have remarked how worn wrinkled and stained they were They spoke of those hours of burrowing The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for I walked round the corner saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our friends premises and felt that I had solved my problem When you drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors with the result that you have seen

And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night? I asked

Well when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about Mr Jabez Wilsons presence--in other words that they had completed their tunnel But it was essential that they should use it soon as it might be discovered or the bullion might be removed Saturday would suit them better than any other day as it would give them two days for their escape For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night

You reasoned it out beautifully I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration It is so long a chain and yet every link rings true

It saved me from ennui he answered yawning Alas! I already feel it closing in upon me My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence These little problems help me to do so

And you are a benefactor of the race said I

He shrugged his shoulders Well perhaps after all it is of some little use he remarked  Lhomme cest rien--loeuvre cest tout as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand

ADVENTURE  III  A CASE OF IDENTITY


My dear fellow said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence If we could fly out of that window hand in hand hover over this great city gently remove the roofs and peep in at the queer things which are going on the strange coincidences the plannings the cross-purposes the wonderful chains of events working through generations and leading to the most outre results it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable

And yet I am not convinced of it I answered The cases which come to light in the papers are as a rule bald enough and vulgar enough We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits and yet the result is it must be confessed neither fascinating nor artistic

A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect remarked Holmes This is wanting in the police report where more stress is laid perhaps upon the platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details which to an observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter Depend upon it there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace

I smiled and shook my head I can quite understand your thinking so I said Of course in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled throughout three continents you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre But here--I picked up the morning paper from the ground--let us put it to a practical test Here is the first heading upon which I come A husbands cruelty to his wife There is half a column of print but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me There is of course the other woman the drink the push the blow the bruise the sympathetic sister or landlady The crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude

Indeed your example is an unfortunate one for your argument said Holmes taking the paper and glancing his eye down it This is the Dundas separation case and as it happens I was engaged in clearing up some small points in connection with it The husband was a teetotaler there was no other woman and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife which you will allow is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average story-teller Take a pinch of snuff Doctor and acknowledge that I have scored over you in your example

He held out his snuffbox of old gold with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it

Ah said he I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks It is a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the Irene Adler papers

And the ring? I asked glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger

It was from the reigning family of Holland though the matter in which I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to you who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little problems

And have you any on hand just now? I asked with interest

Some ten or twelve but none which present any feature of interest They are important you understand without being interesting Indeed I have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the charm to an investigation The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler for the bigger the crime the more obvious as a rule is the motive In these cases save for one rather intricate matter which has been referred to me from Marseilles there is nothing which presents any features of interest It is possible however that I may have something better before very many minutes are over for this is one of my clients or I am much mistaken

He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street Looking over his shoulder I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess of Devonshire fashion over her ear From under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous hesitating fashion at our windows while her body oscillated backward and forward and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons Suddenly with a plunge as of the swimmer who leaves the bank she hurried across the road and we heard the sharp clang of the bell

I have seen those symptoms before said Holmes throwing his cigarette into the fire Oscillation upon the pavement always means an affaire de coeur She would like advice but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication And yet even here we may discriminate When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire Here we may take it that there is a love matter but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed or grieved But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts

As he spoke there was a tap at the door and the boy in buttons entered to announce Miss Mary Sutherland while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny pilot boat Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable and having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was peculiar to him

Do you not find he said that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?

I did at first she answered but now I know where the letters are without looking Then suddenly realising the full purport of his words she gave a violent start and looked up with fear and astonishment upon her broad good-humoured face Youve heard about me Mr Holmes she cried else how could you know all that?

Never mind said Holmes laughing; it is my business to know things Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook If not why should you come to consult me?

I came to you sir because I heard of you from Mrs Etherege whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead Oh Mr Holmes I wish you would do as much for me Im not rich but still I have a hundred a year in my own right besides the little that I make by the machine and I would give it all to know what has become of Mr Hosmer Angel

Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry? asked Sherlock Holmes with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling

Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary Sutherland Yes I did bang out of the house she said for it made me angry to see the easy way in which Mr Windibank--that is my father--took it all He would not go to the police and he would not go to you and so at last as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done it made me mad and I just on with my things and came right away to you

Your father said Holmes your stepfather surely since the name is different

Yes my stepfather I call him father though it sounds funny too for he is only five years and two months older than myself

And your mother is alive?

Oh yes mother is alive and well I wasnt best pleased Mr Holmes when she married again so soon after fathers death and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself Father was a plumber in the Tottenham Court Road and he left a tidy business behind him which mother carried on with Mr Hardy the foreman; but when Mr Windibank came he made her sell the business for he was very superior being a traveller in wines They got $4700 for the goodwill and interest which wasnt near as much as father could have got if he had been alive

I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative but on the contrary he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention

Your own little income he asked does it come out of the business?

Oh no sir It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in Auckland It is in New Zealand stock paying 4 1/4 per cent Two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount but I can only touch the interest

You interest me extremely said Holmes And since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year with what you earn into the bargain you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way I believe that a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about $60

I could do with much less than that Mr Holmes but you understand that as long as I live at home I dont wish to be a burden to them and so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them Of course that is only just for the time Mr Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother and I find that I can do pretty well with what I earn at typewriting It brings me twopence a sheet and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day

You have made your position very clear to me said Holmes This is my friend Dr Watson before whom you can speak as freely as before myself Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr Hosmer Angel

A flush stole over Miss Sutherlands face and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket I met him first at the gasfitters ball she said They used to send father tickets when he was alive and then afterwards they remembered us and sent them to mother Mr Windibank did not wish us to go He never did wish us to go anywhere He would get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat But this time I was set on going and I would go; for what right had he to prevent? He said the folk were not fit for us to know when all fathers friends were to be there And he said that I had nothing fit to wear when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken out of the drawer At last when nothing else would do he went off to France upon the business of the firm but we went mother and I with Mr Hardy who used to be our foreman and it was there I met Mr Hosmer Angel

I suppose said Holmes that when Mr Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball

Oh well he was very good about it He laughed I remember and shrugged his shoulders and said there was no use denying anything to a woman for she would have her way

I see Then at the gasfitters ball you met as I understand a gentleman called Mr Hosmer Angel

Yes sir I met him that night and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe and after that we met him--that is to say Mr Holmes I met him twice for walks but after that father came back again and Mr Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more

No?

Well you know father didnt like anything of the sort He wouldnt have any visitors if he could help it and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle But then as I used to say to mother a woman wants her own circle to begin with and I had not got mine yet

But how about Mr Hosmer Angel? Did he make no attempt to see you?

Well father was going off to France again in a week and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone We could write in the meantime and he used to write every day I took the letters in in the morning so there was no need for father to know

Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?

Oh yes Mr Holmes We were engaged after the first walk that we took Hosmer--Mr Angel--was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street--and--

What office?

Thats the worst of it Mr Holmes I dont know

Where did he live then?

He slept on the premises

And you dont know his address?

No--except that it was Leadenhall Street

Where did you address your letters then?

To the Leadenhall Street Post Office to be left till called for He said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady so I offered to typewrite them like he did his but he wouldnt have that for he said that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me but when they were typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us That will just show you how fond he was of me Mr Holmes and the little things that he would think of

It was most suggestive said Holmes It has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important Can you remember any other little things about Mr Hosmer Angel?

He was a very shy man Mr Holmes He would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight for he said that he hated to be conspicuous Very retiring and gentlemanly he was Even his voice was gentle Hed had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young he told me and it had left him with a weak throat and a hesitating whispering fashion of speech He was always well dressed very neat and plain but his eyes were weak just as mine are and he wore tinted glasses against the glare

Well and what happened when Mr Windibank your stepfather returned to France?

Mr Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear with my hands on the Testament that whatever happened I would always be true to him Mother said he was quite right to make me swear and that it was a sign of his passion Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than I was Then when they talked of marrying within the week I began to ask about father; but they both said never to mind about father but just to tell him afterwards and mother said she would make it all right with him I didnt quite like that Mr Holmes It seemed funny that I should ask his leave as he was only a few years older than me; but I didnt want to do anything on the sly so I wrote to father at Bordeaux where the company has its French offices but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding

It missed him then?

Yes sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived

Ha! that was unfortunate Your wedding was arranged then for the Friday Was it to be in church?

Yes sir but very quietly It was to be at St Saviours near Kings Cross and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St Pancras Hotel Hosmer came for us in a hansom but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler which happened to be the only other cab in the street We got to the church first and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step out but he never did and when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one there! The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him for he had seen him get in with his own eyes That was last Friday Mr Holmes and I have never seen or heard anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him

It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated said Holmes

Oh no sir! He was too good and kind to leave me so Why all the morning he was saying to me that whatever happened I was to be true; and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us I was always to remember that I was pledged to him and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later It seemed strange talk for a wedding-morning but what has happened since gives a meaning to it

Most certainly it does Your own opinion is then that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?

Yes sir I believe that he foresaw some danger or else he would not have talked so And then I think that what he foresaw happened

But you have no notion as to what it could have been?

None

One more question How did your mother take the matter?

She was angry and said that I was never to speak of the matter again

And your father? Did you tell him?

Yes; and he seemed to think with me that something had happened and that I should hear of Hosmer again As he said what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church and then leaving me? Now if he had borrowed my money or if he had married me and got my money settled on him there might be some reason but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine And yet what could have happened? And why could he not write? Oh it drives me half-mad to think of it and I cant sleep a wink at night She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it

I shall glance into the case for you said Holmes rising and I have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result Let the weight of the matter rest upon me now and do not let your mind dwell upon it further Above all try to let Mr Hosmer Angel vanish from your memory as he has done from your life

Then you dont think Ill see him again?

I fear not

Then what has happened to him?

You will leave that question in my hands I should like an accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can spare

I advertised for him in last Saturdays Chronicle said she Here is the slip and here are four letters from him

Thank you And your address?

No 31 Lyon Place Camberwell

Mr Angels address you never had I understand Where is your fathers place of business?

He travels for Westhouse & Marbank the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street

Thank you You have made your statement very clearly You will leave the papers here and remember the advice which I have given you Let the whole incident be a sealed book and do not allow it to affect your life

You are very kind Mr Holmes but I cannot do that I shall be true to Hosmer He shall find me ready when he comes back

For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together his legs stretched out in front of him and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling Then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe which was to him as a counsellor and having lit it he leaned back in his chair with the thick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him and a look of infinite languor in his face

Quite an interesting study that maiden he observed I found her more interesting than her little problem which by the way is rather a trite one You will find parallel cases if you consult my index in Andover in 77 and there was something of the sort at The Hague last year Old as is the idea however there were one or two details which were new to me But the maiden herself was most instructive

You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me I remarked

Not invisible but unnoticed Watson You did not know where to look and so you missed all that was important I can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves the suggestiveness of thumb-nails or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace Now what did you gather from that womans appearance? Describe it

Well she had a slate-coloured broad-brimmed straw hat with a feather of a brickish red Her jacket was black with black beads sewn upon it and a fringe of little black jet ornaments Her dress was brown rather darker than coffee colour with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger Her boots I didnt observe She had small round hanging gold earrings and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in a vulgar comfortable easy-going way

Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled

 Pon my word Watson you are coming along wonderfully You have really done very well indeed It is true that you have missed everything of importance but you have hit upon the method and you have a quick eye for colour Never trust to general impressions my boy but concentrate yourself upon details My first glance is always at a womans sleeve In a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser As you observe this woman had plush upon her sleeves which is a most useful material for showing traces The double line a little above the wrist where the typewritist presses against the table was beautifully defined The sewing-machine of the hand type leaves a similar mark but only on the left arm and on the side of it farthest from the thumb instead of being right across the broadest part as this was I then glanced at her face and observing the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose I ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting which seemed to surprise her

It surprised me

But surely it was obvious I was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other they were really odd ones; the one having a slightly decorated toe-cap and the other a plain one One was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five and the other at the first third and fifth Now when you see that a young lady otherwise neatly dressed has come away from home with odd boots half-buttoned it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry

And what else? I asked keenly interested as I always was by my friends incisive reasoning

I noted in passing that she had written a note before leaving home but after being fully dressed You observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep It must have been this morning or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger All this is amusing though rather elementary but I must go back to business Watson Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr Hosmer Angel?

I held the little printed slip to the light

Missing it said on the morning of the fourteenth a gentleman named Hosmer Angel About five ft seven in in height; strongly built sallow complexion black hair a little bald in the centre bushy black side-whiskers and moustache; tinted glasses slight infirmity of speech Was dressed when last seen in black frock-coat faced with silk black waistcoat gold Albert chain and grey Harris tweed trousers with brown gaiters over elastic-sided boots Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street Anybody bringing--

That will do said Holmes As to the letters he continued glancing over them they are very commonplace Absolutely no clue in them to Mr Angel save that he quotes Balzac once There is one remarkable point however which will no doubt strike you

They are typewritten I remarked

Not only that but the signature is typewritten Look at the neat little Hosmer Angel at the bottom There is a date you see but no superscription except Leadenhall Street which is rather vague The point about the signature is very suggestive--in fact we may call it conclusive

Of what?

My dear fellow is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?

I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted

No that was not the point However I shall write two letters which should settle the matter One is to a firm in the City the other is to the young ladys stepfather Mr Windibank asking him whether he could meet us here at six oclock to-morrow evening It is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives And now Doctor we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim

I had had so many reasons to believe in my friends subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom Once only had I known him to fail in the case of the King of Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to the weird business of the Sign of Four and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet I felt that it would be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel

I left him then still puffing at his black clay pipe with the conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland

A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the sufferer It was not until close upon six oclock that I found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the denouement of the little mystery I found Sherlock Holmes alone however half asleep with his long thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him

Well have you solved it? I asked as I entered

Yes It was the bisulphate of baryta

No no the mystery! I cried

Oh that! I thought of the salt that I have been working upon There was never any mystery in the matter though as I said yesterday some of the details are of interest The only drawback is that there is no law I fear that can touch the scoundrel

Who was he then and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?

The question was hardly out of my mouth and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door

This is the girls stepfather Mr James Windibank said Holmes He has written to me to say that he would be here at six Come in!

The man who entered was a sturdy middle-sized fellow some thirty years of age clean-shaven and sallow-skinned with a bland insinuating manner and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes He shot a questioning glance at each of us placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair

Good-evening Mr James Windibank said Holmes I think that this typewritten letter is from you in which you made an appointment with me for six oclock?

Yes sir I am afraid that I am a little late but I am not quite my own master you know I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you about this little matter for I think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public It was quite against my wishes that she came but she is a very excitable impulsive girl as you may have noticed and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point Of course I did not mind you so much as you are not connected with the official police but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad Besides it is a useless expense for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?

On the contrary said Holmes quietly; I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr Hosmer Angel

Mr Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves I am delighted to hear it he said

It is a curious thing remarked Holmes that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a mans handwriting Unless they are quite new no two of them write exactly alike Some letters get more worn than others and some wear only on one side Now you remark in this note of yours Mr Windibank that in every case there is some little slurring over of the e and a slight defect in the tail of the r There are fourteen other characteristics but those are the more obvious

We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office and no doubt it is a little worn our visitor answered glancing keenly at Holmes with his bright little eyes

And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study Mr Windibank Holmes continued I think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention I have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man They are all typewritten In each case not only are the es slurred and the rs tailless but you will observe if you care to use my magnifying lens that the fourteen other characteristics to which I have alluded are there as well

Mr Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat I cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk Mr Holmes he said If you can catch the man catch him and let me know when you have done it

Certainly said Holmes stepping over and turning the key in the door I let you know then that I have caught him!

What! where? shouted Mr Windibank turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap

Oh it wont do--really it wont said Holmes suavely There is no possible getting out of it Mr Windibank It is quite too transparent and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question Thats right! Sit down and let us talk it over

Our visitor collapsed into a chair with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow It--its not actionable he stammered

I am very much afraid that it is not But between ourselves Windibank it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me Now let me just run over the course of events and you will contradict me if I go wrong

The man sat huddled up in his chair with his head sunk upon his breast like one who is utterly crushed Holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and leaning back with his hands in his pockets began talking rather to himself as it seemed than to us

The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money said he and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them It was a considerable sum for people in their position and the loss of it would have made a serious difference It was worth an effort to preserve it The daughter was of a good amiable disposition but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages and her little income she would not be allowed to remain single long Now her marriage would mean of course the loss of a hundred a year so what does her stepfather do to prevent it? He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age But soon he found that that would not answer forever She became restive insisted upon her rights and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball What does her clever stepfather do then? He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart With the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper and doubly secure on account of the girls short sight he appears as Mr Hosmer Angel and keeps off other lovers by making love himself

It was only a joke at first groaned our visitor We never thought that she would have been so carried away

Very likely not However that may be the young lady was very decidedly carried away and having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in France the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind She was flattered by the gentlemans attentions and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother Then Mr Angel began to call for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced There were meetings and an engagement which would finally secure the girls affections from turning towards anyone else But the deception could not be kept up forever These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous The thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young ladys mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding James Windibank wished Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel and so uncertain as to his fate that for ten years to come at any rate she would not listen to another man As far as the church door he brought her and then as he could go no farther he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other I think that was the chain of events Mr Windibank!

Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had been talking and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face

It may be so or it may not Mr Holmes said he but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now and not me I have done nothing actionable from the first but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint

The law cannot as you say touch you said Holmes unlocking and throwing open the door yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more If the young lady has a brother or a friend he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders By Jove! he continued flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the mans face it is not part of my duties to my client but heres a hunting crop handy and I think I shall just treat myself to-- He took two swift steps to the whip but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs the heavy hall door banged and from the window we could see Mr James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the road

Theres a cold-blooded scoundrel! said Holmes laughing as he threw himself down into his chair once more That fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad and ends on a gallows The case has in some respects been not entirely devoid of interest

I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning I remarked

Well of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident as far as we could see was the stepfather Then the fact that the two men were never together but that the one always appeared when the other was away was suggestive So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice which both hinted at a disguise as did the bushy whiskers My suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature which of course inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it You see all these isolated facts together with many minor ones all pointed in the same direction

And how did you verify them?

Having once spotted my man it was easy to get corroboration I knew the firm for which this man worked Having taken the printed description I eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise--the whiskers the glasses the voice and I sent it to the firm with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter and I wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here As I expected his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects The same post brought me a letter from Westhouse & Marbank of Fenchurch Street to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employe James Windibank Voila tout!

And Miss Sutherland?

If I tell her she will not believe me You may remember the old Persian saying There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman There is as much sense in Hafiz as in Horace and as much knowledge of the world

ADVENTURE IV THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY


We were seated at breakfast one morning my wife and I when the maid brought in a telegram It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:

Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy Shall be glad if you will come with me Air and scenery perfect Leave Paddington by the 11:15

What do you say dear? said my wife looking across at me Will you go?

I really dont know what to say I have a fairly long list at present

Oh Anstruther would do your work for you You have been looking a little pale lately I think that the change would do you good and you are always so interested in Mr Sherlock Holmes cases

I should be ungrateful if I were not seeing what I gained through one of them I answered But if I am to go I must pack at once for I have only half an hour

My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller My wants were few and simple so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise rattling away to Paddington Station Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform his tall gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap

It is really very good of you to come Watson said he It makes a considerable difference to me having someone with me on whom I can thoroughly rely Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get the tickets

We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which Holmes had brought with him Among these he rummaged and read with intervals of note-taking and of meditation until we were past Reading Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack

Have you heard anything of the case? he asked

Not a word I have not seen a paper for some days

The London press has not had very full accounts I have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars It seems from what I gather to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult

That sounds a little paradoxical

But it is profoundly true Singularity is almost invariably a clue The more featureless and commonplace a crime is the more difficult it is to bring it home In this case however they have established a very serious case against the son of the murdered man

It is a murder then?

Well it is conjectured to be so I shall take nothing for granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it I will explain the state of things to you as far as I have been able to understand it in a very few words

Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross in Herefordshire The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr John Turner who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to the old country One of the farms which he held that of Hatherley was let to Mr Charles McCarthy who was also an ex-Australian The men had known each other in the colonies so that it was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as possible Turner was apparently the richer man so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained it seems upon terms of perfect equality as they were frequently together McCarthy had one son a lad of eighteen and Turner had an only daughter of the same age but neither of them had wives living They appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives though both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of the neighbourhood McCarthy kept two servants--a man and a girl Turner had a considerable household some half-dozen at the least That is as much as I have been able to gather about the families Now for the facts

On June 3rd that is on Monday last McCarthy left his house at Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe Pool which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the Boscombe Valley He had been out with his serving-man in the morning at Ross and he had told the man that he must hurry as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three From that appointment he never came back alive

From Hatherley Farmhouse to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile and two people saw him as he passed over this ground One was an old woman whose name is not mentioned and the other was William Crowder a game-keeper in the employ of Mr Turner Both these witnesses depose that Mr McCarthy was walking alone The game-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr McCarthy pass he had seen his son Mr James McCarthy going the same way with a gun under his arm To the best of his belief the father was actually in sight at the time and the son was following him He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred

The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder the game-keeper lost sight of them The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge A girl of fourteen Patience Moran who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate was in one of the woods picking flowers She states that while she was there she saw at the border of the wood and close by the lake Mr McCarthy and his son and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel She heard Mr McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father She was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool and that she was afraid that they were going to fight She had hardly said the words when young Mr McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood and to ask for the help of the lodge-keeper He was much excited without either his gun or his hat and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood On following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon The injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his sons gun which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body Under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested and a verdict of wilful murder having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday he was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross who have referred the case to the next Assizes Those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court

I could hardly imagine a more damning case I remarked If ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here

Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing answered Holmes thoughtfully It may seem to point very straight to one thing but if you shift your own point of view a little you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different It must be confessed however that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit There are several people in the neighbourhood however and among them Miss Turner the daughter of the neighbouring landowner who believe in his innocence and who have retained Lestrade whom you may recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet to work out the case in his interest Lestrade being rather puzzled has referred the case to me and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home

I am afraid said I that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case

There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact he answered laughing Besides we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to Mr Lestrade You know me too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing or even of understanding To take the first example to hand I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand side and yet I question whether Mr Lestrade would have noted even so self-evident a thing as that

How on earth--

My dear fellow I know you well I know the military neatness which characterises you You shave every morning and in this season you shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other I could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference Therein lies my metier and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us There are one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest and which are worth considering

What are they?

It appears that his arrest did not take place at once but after the return to Hatherley Farm On the inspector of constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner he remarked that he was not surprised to hear it and that it was no more than his deserts This observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroners jury

It was a confession I ejaculated

No for it was followed by a protestation of innocence

Coming on the top of such a damning series of events it was at least a most suspicious remark

On the contrary said Holmes it is the brightest rift which I can at present see in the clouds However innocent he might be he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him Had he appeared surprised at his own arrest or feigned indignation at it I should have looked upon it as highly suspicious because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and firmness As to his remark about his deserts it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his father and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him and even according to the little girl whose evidence is so important to raise his hand as if to strike him The self-reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one

I shook my head Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence I remarked

So they have And many men have been wrongfully hanged

What is the young mans own account of the matter?

It is I am afraid not very encouraging to his supporters though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive You will find it here and may read it for yourself

He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully It ran in this way:

Mr James McCarthy the only son of the deceased was then called and gave evidence as follows: I had been away from home for three days at Bristol and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday the 3rd My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival and I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John Cobb the groom Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard and looking out of my window I saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard though I was not aware in which direction he was going I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the Boscombe Pool with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side On my way I saw William Crowder the game-keeper as he had stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father I had no idea that he was in front of me When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of Cooee! which was a usual signal between my father and myself I then hurried forward and found him standing by the pool He appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows for my father was a man of a very violent temper Seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable I left him and returned towards Hatherley Farm I had not gone more than 150 yards however when I heard a hideous outcry behind me which caused me to run back again I found my father expiring upon the ground with his head terribly injured I dropped my gun and held him in my arms but he almost instantly expired I knelt beside him for some minutes and then made my way to Mr Turners lodge-keeper his house being the nearest to ask for assistance I saw no one near my father when I returned and I have no idea how he came by his injuries He was not a popular man being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners but he had as far as I know no active enemies I know nothing further of the matter

The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?

Witness: He mumbled a few words but I could only catch some allusion to a rat

The Coroner: What did you understand by that?

Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me I thought that he was delirious

The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?

Witness: I should prefer not to answer

The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it

Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed

The Coroner: That is for the court to decide I need not point out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably in any future proceedings which may arise

Witness: I must still refuse

The Coroner: I understand that the cry of Cooee was a common signal between you and your father?

Witness: It was

The Coroner: How was it then that he uttered it before he saw you and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?

Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know

A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?

Witness: Nothing definite

The Coroner: What do you mean?

Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open that I could think of nothing except of my father Yet I have a vague impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me It seemed to me to be something grey in colour a coat of some sort or a plaid perhaps When I rose from my father I looked round for it but it was gone

 Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?

 Yes it was gone

 You cannot say what it was?

 No I had a feeling something was there

 How far from the body?

 A dozen yards or so

 And how far from the edge of the wood?

 About the same

 Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?

 Yes but with my back towards it

This concluded the examination of the witness

I see said I as I glanced down the column that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy He calls attention and with reason to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father and his singular account of his fathers dying words They are all as he remarks very much against the son

Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat Both you and the coroner have been at some pains said he to single out the very strongest points in the young mans favour Dont you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little? Too little if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too much if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outre as a dying reference to a rat and the incident of the vanishing cloth No sir I shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us And now here is my pocket Petrarch and not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of action We lunch at Swindon and I see that we shall be there in twenty minutes

It was nearly four oclock when we at last after passing through the beautiful Stroud Valley and over the broad gleaming Severn found ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross A lean ferret-like man furtive and sly-looking was waiting for us upon the platform In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade of Scotland Yard With him we drove to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us

I have ordered a carriage said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea I knew your energetic nature and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime

It was very nice and complimentary of you Holmes answered It is entirely a question of barometric pressure

Lestrade looked startled I do not quite follow he said

How is the glass? Twenty-nine I see No wind and not a cloud in the sky I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination I do not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night

Lestrade laughed indulgently You have no doubt already formed your conclusions from the newspapers he said The case is as plain as a pikestaff and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes Still of course one cant refuse a lady and such a very positive one too She has heard of you and would have your opinion though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not already done Why bless my soul! here is her carriage at the door

He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life Her violet eyes shining her lips parted a pink flush upon her cheeks all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern

Oh Mr Sherlock Holmes! she cried glancing from one to the other of us and finally with a womans quick intuition fastening upon my companion I am so glad that you have come I have driven down to tell you so I know that James didnt do it I know it and I want you to start upon your work knowing it too Never let yourself doubt upon that point We have known each other since we were little children and I know his faults as no one else does; but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a fly Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him

I hope we may clear him Miss Turner said Sherlock Holmes You may rely upon my doing all that I can

But you have read the evidence You have formed some conclusion? Do you not see some loophole some flaw? Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?

I think that it is very probable

There now! she cried throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade You hear! He gives me hopes

Lestrade shrugged his shoulders I am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions he said

But he is right Oh! I know that he is right James never did it And about his quarrel with his father I am sure that the reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in it

In what way? asked Holmes

It is no time for me to hide anything James and his father had many disagreements about me Mr McCarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us James and I have always loved each other as brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet and--and--well he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet So there were quarrels and this I am sure was one of them

And your father? asked Holmes Was he in favour of such a union?

No he was averse to it also No one but Mr McCarthy was in favour of it A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of his keen questioning glances at her

Thank you for this information said he May I see your father if I call to-morrow?

I am afraid the doctor wont allow it

The doctor?

Yes have you not heard? Poor father has never been strong for years back but this has broken him down completely He has taken to his bed and Dr Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered Mr McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the old days in Victoria

Ha! In Victoria! That is important

Yes at the mines

Quite so; at the gold-mines where as I understand Mr Turner made his money

Yes certainly

Thank you Miss Turner You have been of material assistance to me

You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow No doubt you will go to the prison to see James Oh if you do Mr Holmes do tell him that I know him to be innocent

I will Miss Turner

I must go home now for dad is very ill and he misses me so if I leave him Good-bye and God help you in your undertaking She hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street

I am ashamed of you Holmes said Lestrade with dignity after a few minutes silence Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint? I am not over-tender of heart but I call it cruel

I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy said Holmes Have you an order to see him in prison?

Yes but only for you and me

Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?

Ample

Then let us do so Watson I fear that you will find it very slow but I shall only be away a couple of hours

I walked down to the station with them and then wandered through the streets of the little town finally returning to the hotel where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel The puny plot of the story was so thin however when compared to the deep mystery through which we were groping and I found my attention wander so continually from the action to the fact that I at last flung it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day Supposing that this unhappy young mans story were absolutely true then what hellish thing what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father and the moment when drawn back by his screams he rushed into the glade? It was something terrible and deadly What could it be? Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts? I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper which contained a verbatim account of the inquest In the surgeons deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon I marked the spot upon my own head Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind That was to some extent in favour of the accused as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father Still it did not go for very much for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell Still it might be worth while to call Holmes attention to it Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat What could that mean? It could not be delirium A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious No it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate But what could it indicate? I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy If that were true the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress presumably his overcoat in his flight and must have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was! I did not wonder at Lestrades opinion and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes insight that I could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young McCarthys innocence

It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned He came back alone for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town

The glass still keeps very high he remarked as he sat down It is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground On the other hand a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that and I did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey I have seen young McCarthy

And what did you learn from him?

Nothing

Could he throw no light?

None at all I was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had done it and was screening him or her but I am convinced now that he is as puzzled as everyone else He is not a very quick-witted youth though comely to look at and I should think sound at heart

I cannot admire his taste I remarked if it is indeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss Turner

Ah thereby hangs a rather painful tale This fellow is madly insanely in love with her but some two years ago when he was only a lad and before he really knew her for she had been away five years at a boarding-school what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No one knows a word of the matter but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do but what he knows to be absolutely impossible It was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father at their last interview was goading him on to propose to Miss Turner On the other hand he had no means of supporting himself and his father who was by all accounts a very hard man would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in Bristol and his father did not know where he was Mark that point It is of importance Good has come out of evil however for the barmaid finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged has thrown him over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard so that there is really no tie between them I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all that he has suffered

But if he is innocent who has done it?

Ah! who? I would call your attention very particularly to two points One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool and that the someone could not have been his son for his son was away and he did not know when he would return The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry Cooee! before he knew that his son had returned Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends And now let us talk about George Meredith if you please and we shall leave all minor matters until to-morrow

There was no rain as Holmes had foretold and the morning broke bright and cloudless At nine oclock Lestrade called for us with the carriage and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool

There is serious news this morning Lestrade observed It is said that Mr Turner of the Hall is so ill that his life is despaired of

An elderly man I presume? said Holmes

About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his life abroad and he has been in failing health for some time This business has had a very bad effect upon him He was an old friend of McCarthys and I may add a great benefactor to him for I have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free

Indeed! That is interesting said Holmes

Oh yes! In a hundred other ways he has helped him Everybody about here speaks of his kindness to him

Really! Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy who appears to have had little of his own and to have been under such obligations to Turner should still talk of marrying his son to Turners daughter who is presumably heiress to the estate and that in such a very cocksure manner as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow? It is the more strange since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea The daughter told us as much Do you not deduce something from that?

We have got to the deductions and the inferences said Lestrade winking at me I find it hard enough to tackle facts Holmes without flying away after theories and fancies

You are right said Holmes demurely; you do find it very hard to tackle the facts

Anyhow I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of replied Lestrade with some warmth

And that is--

That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine

Well moonshine is a brighter thing than fog said Holmes laughing But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left

Yes that is it It was a widespread comfortable-looking building two-storied slate-roofed with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys however gave it a stricken look as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it We called at the door when the maid at Holmes request showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his death and also a pair of the sons though not the pair which he had then had Having measured these very carefully from seven or eight different points Holmes desired to be led to the court-yard from which we all followed the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool

Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Street would have failed to recognise him His face flushed and darkened His brows were drawn into two hard black lines while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter His face was bent downward his shoulders bowed his lips compressed and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long sinewy neck His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears or at the most only provoked a quick impatient snarl in reply Swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows and so by way of the woods to the Boscombe Pool It was damp marshy ground as is all that district and there were marks of many feet both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side Sometimes Holmes would hurry on sometimes stop dead and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow Lestrade and I walked behind him the detective indifferent and contemptuous while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end

The Boscombe Pool which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some fifty yards across is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr Turner Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowners dwelling On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found and indeed so moist was the ground that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man To Holmes as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass He ran round like a dog who is picking up a scent and then turned upon my companion

What did you go into the pool for? he asked

I fished about with a rake I thought there might be some weapon or other trace But how on earth--

Oh tut tut! I have no time! That left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place A mole could trace it and there it vanishes among the reeds Oh how simple it would all have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body But here are three separate tracks of the same feet He drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view talking all the time rather to himself than to us These are young McCarthys feet Twice he was walking and once he ran swiftly so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible That bears out his story He ran when he saw his father on the ground Then here are the fathers feet as he paced up and down What is this then? It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening And this? Ha ha! What have we here? Tiptoes! tiptoes! Square too quite unusual boots! They come they go they come again--of course that was for the cloak Now where did they come from? He ran up and down sometimes losing sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech the largest tree in the neighbourhood Holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction For a long time he remained there turning over the leaves and dried sticks gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach A jagged stone was lying among the moss and this also he carefully examined and retained Then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the highroad where all traces were lost

It has been a case of considerable interest he remarked returning to his natural manner I fancy that this grey house on the right must be the lodge I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran and perhaps write a little note Having done that we may drive back to our luncheon You may walk to the cab and I shall be with you presently

It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into Ross Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood

This may interest you Lestrade he remarked holding it out The murder was done with it

I see no marks

There are none

How do you know then?

The grass was growing under it It had only lain there a few days There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken It corresponds with the injuries There is no sign of any other weapon

And the murderer?

Is a tall man left-handed limps with the right leg wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak smokes Indian cigars uses a cigar-holder and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket There are several other indications but these may be enough to aid us in our search

Lestrade laughed I am afraid that I am still a sceptic he said Theories are all very well but we have to deal with a hard-headed British jury

Nous verrons answered Holmes calmly You work your own method and I shall work mine I shall be busy this afternoon and shall probably return to London by the evening train

And leave your case unfinished?

No finished

But the mystery?

It is solved

Who was the criminal then?

The gentleman I describe

But who is he?

Surely it would not be difficult to find out This is not such a populous neighbourhood

Lestrade shrugged his shoulders I am a practical man he said and I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a left-handed gentleman with a game leg I should become the laughing-stock of Scotland Yard

All right said Holmes quietly I have given you the chance Here are your lodgings Good-bye I shall drop you a line before I leave

Having left Lestrade at his rooms we drove to our hotel where we found lunch upon the table Holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face as one who finds himself in a perplexing position

Look here Watson he said when the cloth was cleared just sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little I dont know quite what to do and I should value your advice Light a cigar and let me expound

Pray do so

Well now in considering this case there are two points about young McCarthys narrative which struck us both instantly although they impressed me in his favour and you against him One was the fact that his father should according to his account cry Cooee! before seeing him The other was his singular dying reference to a rat He mumbled several words you understand but that was all that caught the sons ear Now from this double point our research must commence and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true

What of this Cooee! then?

Well obviously it could not have been meant for the son The son as far as he knew was in Bristol It was mere chance that he was within earshot The Cooee! was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with But Cooee is a distinctly Australian cry and one which is used between Australians There is a strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia

What of the rat then?

Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table This is a map of the Colony of Victoria he said I wired to Bristol for it last night He put his hand over part of the map What do you read?

ARAT I read

And now? He raised his hand

BALLARAT

Quite so That was the word the man uttered and of which his son only caught the last two syllables He was trying to utter the name of his murderer So and so of Ballarat

It is wonderful! I exclaimed

It is obvious And now you see I had narrowed the field down considerably The possession of a grey garment was a third point which granting the sons statement to be correct was a certainty We have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak

Certainly

And one who was at home in the district for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate where strangers could hardly wander

Quite so

Then comes our expedition of to-day By an examination of the ground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade as to the personality of the criminal

But how did you gain them?

You know my method It is founded upon the observation of trifles

His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride His boots too might be told from their traces

Yes they were peculiar boots

But his lameness?

The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left He put less weight upon it Why? Because he limped--he was lame

But his left-handedness

You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest The blow was struck from immediately behind and yet was upon the left side Now how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man? He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son He had even smoked there I found the ash of a cigar which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar I have as you know devoted some attention to this and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140 different varieties of pipe cigar and cigarette tobacco Having found the ash I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it It was an Indian cigar of the variety which are rolled in Rotterdam

And the cigar-holder?

I could see that the end had not been in his mouth Therefore he used a holder The tip had been cut off not bitten off but the cut was not a clean one so I deduced a blunt pen-knife

Holmes I said you have drawn a net round this man from which he cannot escape and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him I see the direction in which all this points The culprit is--

Mr John Turner cried the hotel waiter opening the door of our sitting-room and ushering in a visitor

The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure His slow limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude and yet his hard deep-lined craggy features and his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of character His tangled beard grizzled hair and outstanding drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance but his face was of an ashen white while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue It was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease

Pray sit down on the sofa said Holmes gently You had my note?

Yes the lodge-keeper brought it up You said that you wished to see me here to avoid scandal

I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall

And why did you wish to see me? He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes as though his question was already answered

Yes said Holmes answering the look rather than the words It is so I know all about McCarthy

The old man sank his face in his hands God help me! he cried But I would not have let the young man come to harm I give you my word that I would have spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes

I am glad to hear you say so said Holmes gravely

I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl It would break her heart--it will break her heart when she hears that I am arrested

It may not come to that said Holmes

What?

I am no official agent I understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here and I am acting in her interests Young McCarthy must be got off however

I am a dying man said old Turner I have had diabetes for years My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month Yet I would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol

Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him Just tell us the truth he said I shall jot down the facts You will sign it and Watson here can witness it Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young McCarthy I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed

Its as well said the old man; its a question whether I shall live to the Assizes so it matters little to me but I should wish to spare Alice the shock And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has been a long time in the acting but will not take me long to tell

You didnt know this dead man McCarthy He was a devil incarnate I tell you that God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he His grip has been upon me these twenty years and he has blasted my life Ill tell you first how I came to be in his power

It was in the early 60s at the diggings I was a young chap then hot-blooded and reckless ready to turn my hand at anything; I got among bad companions took to drink had no luck with my claim took to the bush and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber There were six of us and we had a wild free life of it sticking up a station from time to time or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang

One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne and we lay in wait for it and attacked it There were six troopers and six of us so it was a close thing but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley Three of our boys were killed however before we got the swag I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver who was this very man McCarthy I wish to the Lord that I had shot him then but I spared him though I saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face as though to remember every feature We got away with the gold became wealthy men and made our way over to England without being suspected There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life I bought this estate which chanced to be in the market and I set myself to do a little good with my money to make up for the way in which I had earned it I married too and though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done In a word I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me

I had gone up to town about an investment and I met him in Regent Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot

 Here we are Jack says he touching me on the arm; well be as good as a family to you Theres two of us me and my son and you can have the keeping of us If you dont--its a fine law-abiding country is England and theres always a policeman within hail

Well down they came to the west country there was no shaking them off and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since There was no rest for me no peace no forgetfulness; turn where I would there was his cunning grinning face at my elbow It grew worse as Alice grew up for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police Whatever he wanted he must have and whatever it was I gave him without question land money houses until at last he asked a thing which I could not give He asked for Alice

His son you see had grown up and so had my girl and as I was known to be in weak health it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property But there I was firm I would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had any dislike to the lad but his blood was in him and that was enough I stood firm McCarthy threatened I braved him to do his worst We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over

When I went down there I found him talking with his son so I smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this Could I not snap the bond? I was already a dying and a desperate man Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb I knew that my own fate was sealed But my memory and my girl! Both could be saved if I could but silence that foul tongue I did it Mr Holmes I would do it again Deeply as I have sinned I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it But that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer I struck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some foul and venomous beast His cry brought back his son; but I had gained the cover of the wood though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight That is the true story gentlemen of all that occurred

Well it is not for me to judge you said Holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out I pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation

I pray not sir And what do you intend to do?

In view of your health nothing You are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes I will keep your confession and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be forced to use it If not it shall never be seen by mortal eye; and your secret whether you be alive or dead shall be safe with us

Farewell then said the old man solemnly Your own deathbeds when they come will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame he stumbled slowly from the room

God help us! said Holmes after a long silence Why does fate play such tricks with poor helpless worms? I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxters words and say There but for the grace of God goes Sherlock Holmes 

James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defending counsel Old Turner lived for seven months after our interview but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past

ADVENTURE  V  THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS


When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases between the years 82 and 90 I am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave Some however have already gained publicity through the papers and others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate Some too have baffled his analytical skill and would be as narratives beginnings without an ending while others have been but partially cleared up and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him There is however one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been and probably never will be entirely cleared up

The year 87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest of which I retain the records Among my headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the Paradol Chamber of the Amateur Mendicant Society who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse of the facts connected with the loss of the British barque Sophy Anderson of the singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa and finally of the Camberwell poisoning case In the latter as may be remembered Sherlock Holmes was able by winding up the dead mans watch to prove that it had been wound up two hours before and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time--a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case All these I may sketch out at some future date but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe

It was in the latter days of September and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence All day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows so that even here in the heart of great hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation like untamed beasts in a cage As evening drew in the storm grew higher and louder and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russells fine sea-stories until the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves My wife was on a visit to her mothers and for a few days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker Street

Why said I glancing up at my companion that was surely the bell Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours perhaps?

Except yourself I have none he answered I do not encourage visitors

A client then?

If so it is a serious case Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour But I take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landladys

Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture however for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit

Come in! said he

The man who entered was young some two-and-twenty at the outside well-groomed and trimly clad with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp and I could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety

I owe you an apology he said raising his golden pince-nez to his eyes I trust that I am not intruding I fear that I have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber

Give me your coat and umbrella said Holmes They may rest here on the hook and will be dry presently You have come up from the south-west I see

Yes from Horsham

That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive

I have come for advice

That is easily got

And help

That is not always so easy

I have heard of you Mr Holmes I heard from Major Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal

Ah of course He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards

He said that you could solve anything

He said too much

That you are never beaten

I have been beaten four times--three times by men and once by a woman

But what is that compared with the number of your successes?

It is true that I have been generally successful

Then you may be so with me

I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case

It is no ordinary one

None of those which come to me are I am the last court of appeal

And yet I question sir whether in all your experience you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family

You fill me with interest said Holmes Pray give us the essential facts from the commencement and I can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important

The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze

My name said he is John Openshaw but my own affairs have as far as I can understand little to do with this awful business It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts I must go back to the commencement of the affair

You must know that my grandfather had two sons--my uncle Elias and my father Joseph My father had a small factory at Coventry which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence

My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became a planter in Florida where he was reported to have done very well At the time of the war he fought in Jacksons army and afterwards under Hood where he rose to be a colonel When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation where he remained for three or four years About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex near Horsham He had made a very considerable fortune in the States and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the franchise to them He was a singular man fierce and quick-tempered very foul-mouthed when he was angry and of a most retiring disposition During all the years that he lived at Horsham I doubt if ever he set foot in the town He had a garden and two or three fields round his house and there he would take his exercise though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily but he would see no society and did not want any friends not even his own brother

He didnt mind me; in fact he took a fancy to me for at the time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so This would be in the year 1878 after he had been eight or nine years in England He begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in his way When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quite master of the house I kept all the keys and could go where I liked and do what I liked so long as I did not disturb him in his privacy There was one singular exception however for he had a single room a lumber-room up among the attics which was invariably locked and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to enter With a boys curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole but I was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room

One day--it was in March 1883--a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonels plate It was not a common thing for him to receive letters for his bills were all paid in ready money and he had no friends of any sort From India! said he as he took it up Pondicherry postmark! What can this be? Opening it hurriedly out there jumped five little dried orange pips which pattered down upon his plate I began to laugh at this but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face His lip had fallen his eyes were protruding his skin the colour of putty and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand K K K! he shrieked and then My God my God my sins have overtaken me!

 What is it uncle? I cried

 Death said he and rising from the table he retired to his room leaving me palpitating with horror I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap just above the gum the letter K three times repeated There was nothing else save the five dried pips What could be the reason of his overpowering terror? I left the breakfast-table and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key which must have belonged to the attic in one hand and a small brass box like a cashbox in the other

 They may do what they like but Ill checkmate them still said he with an oath Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day and send down to Fordham the Horsham lawyer

I did as he ordered and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step up to the room The fire was burning brightly and in the grate there was a mass of black fluffy ashes as of burned paper while the brass box stood open and empty beside it As I glanced at the box I noticed with a start that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope

 I wish you John said my uncle to witness my will I leave my estate with all its advantages and all its disadvantages to my brother your father whence it will no doubt descend to you If you can enjoy it in peace well and good! If you find you cannot take my advice my boy and leave it to your deadliest enemy I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing but I cant say what turn things are going to take Kindly sign the paper where Mr Fordham shows you

I signed the paper as directed and the lawyer took it away with him The singular incident made as you may think the deepest impression upon me and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives I could see a change in my uncle however He drank more than ever and he was less inclined for any sort of society Most of his time he would spend in his room with the door locked upon the inside but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a revolver in his hand screaming out that he was afraid of no man and that he was not to be cooped up like a sheep in a pen by man or devil When these hot fits were over however he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul At such times I have seen his face even on a cold day glisten with moisture as though it were new raised from a basin

Well to come to an end of the matter Mr Holmes and not to abuse your patience there came a night when he made one of those drunken sallies from which he never came back We found him when we went to search for him face downward in a little green-scummed pool which lay at the foot of the garden There was no sign of any violence and the water was but two feet deep so that the jury having regard to his known eccentricity brought in a verdict of suicide But I who knew how he winced from the very thought of death had much ado to persuade myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it The matter passed however and my father entered into possession of the estate and of some $14000 which lay to his credit at the bank

One moment Holmes interposed your statement is I foresee one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened Let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter and the date of his supposed suicide

The letter arrived on March 10 1883 His death was seven weeks later upon the night of May 2nd

Thank you Pray proceed

When my father took over the Horsham property he at my request made a careful examination of the attic which had been always locked up We found the brass box there although its contents had been destroyed On the inside of the cover was a paper label with the initials of K K K repeated upon it and Letters memoranda receipts and a register written beneath These we presume indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw For the rest there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncles life in America Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the Southern states and were mostly concerned with politics for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bag politicians who had been sent down from the North

Well it was the beginning of 84 when my father came to live at Horsham and all went as well as possible with us until the January of 85 On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table There he was sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one He had always laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel but he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon himself

 Why what on earth does this mean John? he stammered

My heart had turned to lead It is K K K said I

He looked inside the envelope So it is he cried Here are the very letters But what is this written above them?

 Put the papers on the sundial I read peeping over his shoulder

 What papers? What sundial? he asked

 The sundial in the garden There is no other said I; but the papers must be those that are destroyed

 Pooh! said he gripping hard at his courage We are in a civilised land here and we cant have tomfoolery of this kind Where does the thing come from?

 From Dundee I answered glancing at the postmark

 Some preposterous practical joke said he What have I to do with sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such nonsense

 I should certainly speak to the police I said

 And be laughed at for my pains Nothing of the sort

 Then let me do so?

 No I forbid you I wont have a fuss made about such nonsense

It was in vain to argue with him for he was a very obstinate man I went about however with a heart which was full of forebodings

On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from home to visit an old friend of his Major Freebody who is in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill I was glad that he should go for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home In that however I was in error Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major imploring me to come at once My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood and was lying senseless with a shattered skull I hurried to him but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness He had as it appears been returning from Fareham in the twilight and as the country was unknown to him and the chalk-pit unfenced the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of death from accidental causes Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death I was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder There were no signs of violence no footmarks no robbery no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads And yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease and that I was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him

In this sinister way I came into my inheritance You will ask me why I did not dispose of it? I answer because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncles life and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another

It was in January 85 that my poor father met his end and two years and eight months have elapsed since then During that time I have lived happily at Horsham and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family and that it had ended with the last generation I had begun to take comfort too soon however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father

The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips

This is the envelope he continued The postmark is London--eastern division Within are the very words which were upon my fathers last message: K K K; and then Put the papers on the sundial 

What have you done? asked Holmes

Nothing

Nothing?

To tell the truth--he sank his face into his thin white hands--I have felt helpless I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it I seem to be in the grasp of some resistless inexorable evil which no foresight and no precautions can guard against

Tut! tut! cried Sherlock Holmes You must act man or you are lost Nothing but energy can save you This is no time for despair

I have seen the police

Ah!

But they listened to my story with a smile I am convinced that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical jokes and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents as the jury stated and were not to be connected with the warnings

Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air Incredible imbecility! he cried

They have however allowed me a policeman who may remain in the house with me

Has he come with you to-night?

No His orders were to stay in the house

Again Holmes raved in the air

Why did you come to me he cried and above all why did you not come at once?

I did not know It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you

It is really two days since you had the letter We should have acted before this You have no further evidence I suppose than that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detail which might help us?

There is one thing said John Openshaw He rummaged in his coat pocket and drawing out a piece of discoloured blue-tinted paper he laid it out upon the table I have some remembrance said he that on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room and I am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has perhaps fluttered out from among the others and in that way has escaped destruction Beyond the mention of pips I do not see that it helps us much I think myself that it is a page from some private diary The writing is undoubtedly my uncles

Holmes moved the lamp and we both bent over the sheet of paper which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book It was headed March 1869 and beneath were the following enigmatical notices:

4th Hudson came Same old platform

7th Set the pips on McCauley Paramore and

        John Swain of St Augustine

9th McCauley cleared

10th John Swain cleared

12th Visited Paramore All well

Thank you! said Holmes folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor And now you must on no account lose another instant We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me You must get home instantly and act

What shall I do?

There is but one thing to do It must be done at once You must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described You must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle and that this is the only one which remains You must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them Having done this you must at once put the box out upon the sundial as directed Do you understand?

Entirely

Do not think of revenge or anything of the sort at present I think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to weave while theirs is already woven The first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties

I thank you said the young man rising and pulling on his overcoat You have given me fresh life and hope I shall certainly do as you advise

Do not lose an instant And above all take care of yourself in the meanwhile for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger How do you go back?

By train from Waterloo

It is not yet nine The streets will be crowded so I trust that you may be in safety And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely

I am armed

That is well To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case

I shall see you at Horsham then?

No your secret lies in London It is there that I shall seek it

Then I shall call upon you in a day or in two days with news as to the box and the papers I shall take your advice in every particular He shook hands with us and took his leave Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows This strange wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements--blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale--and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more

Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire Then he lit his pipe and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling

I think Watson he remarked at last that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this

Save perhaps the Sign of Four

Well yes Save perhaps that And yet this John Openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos

But have you I asked formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?

There can be no question as to their nature he answered

Then what are they? Who is this K K K and why does he pursue this unhappy family?

Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair with his finger-tips together The ideal reasoner he remarked would when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones both before and after We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses To carry the art however to its highest pitch it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies as you will readily see a possession of all knowledge which even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias is a somewhat rare accomplishment It is not so impossible however that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work and this I have endeavoured in my case to do If I remember rightly you on one occasion in the early days of our friendship defined my limits in a very precise fashion

Yes I answered laughing It was a singular document Philosophy astronomy and politics were marked at zero I remember Botany variable geology profound as regards the mud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town chemistry eccentric anatomy unsystematic sensational literature and crime records unique violin-player boxer swordsman lawyer and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco Those I think were the main points of my analysis

Holmes grinned at the last item Well he said I say now as I said then that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use and the rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library where he can get it if he wants it Now for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to-night we need certainly to muster all our resources Kindly hand me down the letter K of the American Encyclopaedia which stands upon the shelf beside you Thank you Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it In the first place we may start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving America Men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town His extreme love of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from America As to what it was he feared we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?

The first was from Pondicherry the second from Dundee and the third from London

From East London What do you deduce from that?

They are all seaports That the writer was on board of a ship

Excellent We have already a clue There can be no doubt that the probability--the strong probability--is that the writer was on board of a ship And now let us consider another point In the case of Pondicherry seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment in Dundee it was only some three or four days Does that suggest anything?

A greater distance to travel

But the letter had also a greater distance to come

Then I do not see the point

There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or men are is a sailing-ship It looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from Dundee If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter But as a matter of fact seven weeks elapsed I think that those seven weeks represented the difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the writer

It is possible

More than that It is probable And now you see the deadly urgency of this new case and why I urged young Openshaw to caution The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance But this one comes from London and therefore we cannot count upon delay

Good God! I cried What can it mean this relentless persecution?

The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship I think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroners jury There must have been several in it and they must have been men of resource and determination Their papers they mean to have be the holder of them who it may In this way you see K K K ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society

But of what society?

Have you never-- said Sherlock Holmes bending forward and sinking his voice--have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?

I never have

Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee Here it is said he presently:

 Ku Klux Klan A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle This terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country notably in Tennessee Louisiana the Carolinas Georgia and Florida Its power was used for political purposes principally for the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country of those who were opposed to its views Its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape--a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts melon seeds or orange pips in others On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways or might fly from the country If he braved the matter out death would unfailingly come upon him and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner So perfect was the organisation of the society and so systematic its methods that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators For some years the organisation flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States government and of the better classes of the community in the South Eventually in the year 1869 the movement rather suddenly collapsed although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date

You will observe said Holmes laying down the volume that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers It may well have been cause and effect It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track You can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered

Then the page we have seen--

Is such as we might expect It ran if I remember right sent the pips to A B and C--that is sent the societys warning to them Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared or left the country and finally that C was visited with I fear a sinister result for C Well I think Doctor that we may let some light into this dark place and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what I have told him There is nothing more to be said or to be done to-night so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow men

It had cleared in the morning and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down

You will excuse me for not waiting for you said he; I have I foresee a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young Openshaws

What steps will you take? I asked

It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries I may have to go down to Horsham after all

You will not go there first?

No I shall commence with the City Just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee

As I waited I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart

Holmes I cried you are too late

Ah! said he laying down his cup I feared as much How was it done? He spoke calmly but I could see that he was deeply moved

My eye caught the name of Openshaw and the heading Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge Here is the account:

 Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook of the H Division on duty near Waterloo Bridge heard a cry for help and a splash in the water The night however was extremely dark and stormy so that in spite of the help of several passers-by it was quite impossible to effect a rescue The alarm however was given and by the aid of the water-police the body was eventually recovered It proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket was John Openshaw and whose residence is near Horsham It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats The body exhibited no traces of violence and there can be no doubt that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident which should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condition of the riverside landing-stages 

We sat in silence for some minutes Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him

That hurts my pride Watson he said at last It is a petty feeling no doubt but it hurts my pride It becomes a personal matter with me now and if God sends me health I shall set my hand upon this gang That he should come to me for help and that I should send him away to his death--! He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands

They must be cunning devils he exclaimed at last How could they have decoyed him down there? The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station The bridge no doubt was too crowded even on such a night for their purpose Well Watson we shall see who will win in the long run I am going out now!

To the police?

No; I shall be my own police When I have spun the web they may take the flies but not before

All day I was engaged in my professional work and it was late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street Sherlock Holmes had not come back yet It was nearly ten oclock before he entered looking pale and worn He walked up to the sideboard and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously washing it down with a long draught of water

You are hungry I remarked

Starving It had escaped my memory I have had nothing since breakfast

Nothing?

Not a bite I had no time to think of it

And how have you succeeded?

Well

You have a clue?

I have them in the hollow of my hand Young Openshaw shall not long remain unavenged Why Watson let us put their own devilish trade-mark upon them It is well thought of!

What do you mean?

He took an orange from the cupboard and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table Of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope On the inside of the flap he wrote S H for J O Then he sealed it and addressed it to Captain James Calhoun Barque Lone Star Savannah Georgia

That will await him when he enters port said he chuckling It may give him a sleepless night He will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him

And who is this Captain Calhoun?

The leader of the gang I shall have the others but he first

How did you trace it then?

He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket all covered with dates and names

I have spent the whole day said he over Lloyds registers and files of the old papers following the future career of every vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in 83 There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months Of these one the Lone Star instantly attracted my attention since although it was reported as having cleared from London the name is that which is given to one of the states of the Union

Texas I think

I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must have an American origin

What then?

I searched the Dundee records and when I found that the barque Lone Star was there in January 85 my suspicion became a certainty I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of London

Yes?

The Lone Star had arrived here last week I went down to the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning homeward bound to Savannah I wired to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago and as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight

What will you do then?

Oh I have my hand upon him He and the two mates are as I learn the only native-born Americans in the ship The others are Finns and Germans I know also that they were all three away from the ship last night I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo By the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter and the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder

There is ever a flaw however in the best laid of human plans and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another as cunning and as resolute as themselves was upon their track Very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year We waited long for news of the Lone Star of Savannah but none ever reached us We did at last hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave with the letters L S carved upon it and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the Lone Star

ADVENTURE  VI  THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP


Isa Whitney brother of the late Elias Whitney DD Principal of the Theological College of St Georges was much addicted to opium The habit grew upon him as I understand from some foolish freak when he was at college; for having read De Quinceys description of his dreams and sensations he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects He found as so many more have done that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives I can see him now with yellow pasty face drooping lids and pin-point pupils all huddled in a chair the wreck and ruin of a noble man

One night--it was in June 89--there came a ring to my bell about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock I sat up in my chair and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment

A patient! said she Youll have to go out

I groaned for I was newly come back from a weary day

We heard the door open a few hurried words and then quick steps upon the linoleum Our own door flew open and a lady clad in some dark-coloured stuff with a black veil entered the room

You will excuse my calling so late she began and then suddenly losing her self-control she ran forward threw her arms about my wifes neck and sobbed upon her shoulder Oh Im in such trouble! she cried; I do so want a little help

Why said my wife pulling up her veil it is Kate Whitney How you startled me Kate! I had not an idea who you were when you came in

I didnt know what to do so I came straight to you That was always the way Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a light-house

It was very sweet of you to come Now you must have some wine and water and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?

Oh no no! I want the doctors advice and help too Its about Isa He has not been home for two days I am so frightened about him!

It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husbands trouble to me as a doctor to my wife as an old friend and school companion We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find Did she know where her husband was? Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?

It seems that it was She had the surest information that of late he had when the fit was on him made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the City Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day and he had come back twitching and shattered in the evening But now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours and he lay there doubtless among the dregs of the docks breathing in the poison or sleeping off the effects There he was to be found she was sure of it at the Bar of Gold in Upper Swandam Lane But what was she to do? How could she a young and timid woman make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?

There was the case and of course there was but one way out of it Might I not escort her to this place? And then as a second thought why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitneys medical adviser and as such I had influence over him I could manage it better if I were alone I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand as it seemed to me at the time though the future only could show how strange it was to be

But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave I found the den of which I was in search Ordering my cab to wait I passed down the steps worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch and made my way into a long low room thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke and terraced with wooden berths like the forecastle of an emigrant ship

Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses bowed shoulders bent knees heads thrown back and chins pointing upward with here and there a dark lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer Out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light now bright now faint as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes The most lay silent but some muttered to themselves and others talked together in a strange low monotonous voice their conversation coming in gushes and then suddenly tailing off into silence each mumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall thin old man with his jaw resting upon his two fists and his elbows upon his knees staring into the fire

As I entered a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug beckoning me to an empty berth

Thank you I have not come to stay said I There is a friend of mine here Mr Isa Whitney and I wish to speak with him

There was a movement and an exclamation from my right and peering through the gloom I saw Whitney pale haggard and unkempt staring out at me

My God! Its Watson said he He was in a pitiable state of reaction with every nerve in a twitter I say Watson what oclock is it?

Nearly eleven

Of what day?

Of Friday June 19th

Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday It is Wednesday What dyou want to frighten a chap for? He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key

I tell you that it is Friday man Your wife has been waiting this two days for you You should be ashamed of yourself!

So I am But youve got mixed Watson for I have only been here a few hours three pipes four pipes--I forget how many But Ill go home with you I wouldnt frighten Kate--poor little Kate Give me your hand! Have you a cab?

Yes I have one waiting

Then I shall go in it But I must owe something Find what I owe Watson I am all off colour I can do nothing for myself

I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers holding my breath to keep out the vile stupefying fumes of the drug and looking about for the manager As I passed the tall man who sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt and a low voice whispered Walk past me and then look back at me The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear I glanced down They could only have come from the old man at my side and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever very thin very wrinkled bent with age an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers I took two steps forward and looked back It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment He had turned his back so that none could see him but I His form had filled out his wrinkles were gone the dull eyes had regained their fire and there sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise was none other than Sherlock Holmes He made a slight motion to me to approach him and instantly as he turned his face half round to the company once more subsided into a doddering loose-lipped senility

Holmes! I whispered what on earth are you doing in this den?

As low as you can he answered; I have excellent ears If you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you

I have a cab outside

Then pray send him home in it You may safely trust him for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me If you will wait outside I shall be with you in five minutes

It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes requests for they were always so exceedingly definite and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery I felt however that when Whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest I could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence In a few minutes I had written my note paid Whitneys bill led him out to the cab and seen him driven through the darkness In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot Then glancing quickly round he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter

I suppose Watson said he that you imagine that I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injections and all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views

I was certainly surprised to find you there

But not more so than I to find you

I came to find a friend

And I to find an enemy

An enemy?

Yes; one of my natural enemies or shall I say my natural prey Briefly Watson I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots as I have done before now Had I been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hours purchase; for I have used it before now for my own purposes and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me There is a trap-door at the back of that building near the corner of Pauls Wharf which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights

What! You do not mean bodies?

Ay bodies Watson We should be rich men if we had $1000 for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside and I fear that Neville St Clair has entered it never to leave it more But our trap should be here He put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly--a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses hoofs

Now Watson said Holmes as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns Youll come with me wont you?

If I can be of use

Oh a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one

The Cedars?

Yes; that is Mr St Clairs house I am staying there while I conduct the inquiry

Where is it then?

Near Lee in Kent We have a seven-mile drive before us

But I am all in the dark

Of course you are Youll know all about it presently Jump up here All right John; we shall not need you Heres half a crown Look out for me to-morrow about eleven Give her her head So long then!

He flicked the horse with his whip and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets which widened gradually until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar its silence broken only by the heavy regular footfall of the policeman or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds Holmes drove in silence with his head sunk upon his breast and the air of a man who is lost in thought while I sat beside him curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts We had driven several miles and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas when he shook himself shrugged his shoulders and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best

You have a grand gift of silence Watson said he It makes you quite invaluable as a companion Pon my word it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant I was wondering what I should say to this dear little woman to-night when she meets me at the door

You forget that I know nothing about it

I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to Lee It seems absurdly simple and yet somehow I can get nothing to go upon Theres plenty of thread no doubt but I cant get the end of it into my hand Now Ill state the case clearly and concisely to you Watson and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me

Proceed then

Some years ago--to be definite in May 1884--there came to Lee a gentleman Neville St Clair by name who appeared to have plenty of money He took a large villa laid out the grounds very nicely and lived generally in good style By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer by whom he now has two children He had no occupation but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night Mr St Clair is now thirty-seven years of age is a man of temperate habits a good husband a very affectionate father and a man who is popular with all who know him I may add that his whole debts at the present moment as far as we have been able to ascertain amount to $88 10s while he has $220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank There is no reason therefore to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind

Last Monday Mr Neville St Clair went into town rather earlier than usual remarking before he started that he had two important commissions to perform and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks Now by the merest chance his wife received a telegram upon this same Monday very shortly after his departure to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company Now if you are well up in your London you will know that the office of the company is in Fresno Street which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane where you found me to-night Mrs St Clair had her lunch started for the City did some shopping proceeded to the companys office got her packet and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station Have you followed me so far?

It is very clear

If you remember Monday was an exceedingly hot day and Mrs St Clair walked slowly glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself While she was walking in this way down Swandam Lane she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and as it seemed to her beckoning to her from a second-floor window The window was open and she distinctly saw his face which she describes as being terribly agitated He waved his hands frantically to her and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat such as he had started to town in he had on neither collar nor necktie

Convinced that something was amiss with him she rushed down the steps--for the house was none other than the opium den in which you found me to-night--and running through the front room she attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor At the foot of the stairs however she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken who thrust her back and aided by a Dane who acts as assistant there pushed her out into the street Filled with the most maddening doubts and fears she rushed down the lane and by rare good-fortune met in Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector all on their way to their beat The inspector and two men accompanied her back and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor they made their way to the room in which Mr St Clair had last been seen There was no sign of him there In fact in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect who it seems made his home there Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon So determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered and had almost come to believe that Mrs St Clair had been deluded when with a cry she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it Out there fell a cascade of childrens bricks It was the toy which he had promised to bring home

This discovery and the evident confusion which the cripple showed made the inspector realise that the matter was serious The rooms were carefully examined and results all pointed to an abominable crime The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small bedroom which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of Mr Neville St Clair with the exception of his coat His boots his socks his hat and his watch--all were there There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments and there were no other traces of Mr Neville St Clair Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy

And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents but as by Mrs St Clairs story he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husbands appearance at the window he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime His defence was one of absolute ignorance and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone his lodger and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentlemans clothes

So much for the Lascar manager Now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St Clair His name is Hugh Boone and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City He is a professional beggar though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas Some little distance down Threadneedle Street upon the left-hand side there is as you may have remarked a small angle in the wall Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him I have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional acquaintance and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time His appearance you see is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him A shock of orange hair a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar which by its contraction has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip a bulldog chin and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes which present a singular contrast to the colour of his hair all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so too does his wit for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest

But a cripple! said I What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?

He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man Surely your medical experience would tell you Watson that weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others

Pray continue your narrative

Mrs St Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window and she was escorted home in a cab by the police as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations Inspector Barton who had charge of the case made a very careful examination of the premises but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the Lascar but this fault was soon remedied and he was seized and searched without anything being found which could incriminate him There were it is true some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve but he pointed to his ring-finger which had been cut near the nail and explained that the bleeding came from there adding that he had been to the window not long before and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same source He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr Neville St Clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police As to Mrs St Clairs assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming He was removed loudly protesting to the police-station while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue

And it did though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had feared to find It was Neville St Clairs coat and not Neville St Clair which lay uncovered as the tide receded And what do you think they found in the pockets?

I cannot imagine

No I dont think you would guess Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies--421 pennies and 270 half-pennies It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide But a human body is a different matter There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river

But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?

No sir but the facts might be met speciously enough Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St Clair through the window there is no human eye which could have seen the deed What would he do then? It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments He would seize the coat then and be in the act of throwing it out when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink He has little time for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up and perhaps he has already heard from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street There is not an instant to be lost He rushes to some secret hoard where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coats sinking He throws it out and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared

It certainly sounds feasible

Well we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better Boone as I have told you was arrested and taken to the station but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him He had for years been known as a professional beggar but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one There the matter stands at present and the questions which have to be solved--what Neville St Clair was doing in the opium den what happened to him when there where is he now and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance--are all as far from a solution as ever I confess that I cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties

While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of events we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us Just as he finished however we drove through two scattered villages where a few lights still glimmered in the windows

We are on the outskirts of Lee said my companion We have touched on three English counties in our short drive starting in Middlesex passing over an angle of Surrey and ending in Kent See that light among the trees? That is The Cedars and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already I have little doubt caught the clink of our horses feet

But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street? I asked

Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here Mrs St Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague I hate to meet her Watson when I have no news of her husband Here we are Whoa there whoa!

We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds A stable-boy had run out to the horses head and springing down I followed Holmes up the small winding gravel-drive which led to the house As we approached the door flew open and a little blonde woman stood in the opening clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists She stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light one hand upon the door one half-raised in her eagerness her body slightly bent her head and face protruded with eager eyes and parted lips a standing question

Well? she cried well? And then seeing that there were two of us she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders

No good news?

None

No bad?

No

Thank God for that But come in You must be weary for you have had a long day

This is my friend Dr Watson He has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation

I am delighted to see you said she pressing my hand warmly You will I am sure forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us

My dear madam said I I am an old campaigner and if I were not I can very well see that no apology is needed If I can be of any assistance either to you or to my friend here I shall be indeed happy

Now Mr Sherlock Holmes said the lady as we entered a well-lit dining-room upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions to which I beg that you will give a plain answer

Certainly madam

Do not trouble about my feelings I am not hysterical nor given to fainting I simply wish to hear your real real opinion

Upon what point?

In your heart of hearts do you think that Neville is alive?

Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question Frankly now! she repeated standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair

Frankly then madam I do not

You think that he is dead?

I do

Murdered?

I dont say that Perhaps

And on what day did he meet his death?

On Monday

Then perhaps Mr Holmes you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from him to-day

Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised

What! he roared

Yes to-day She stood smiling holding up a little slip of paper in the air

May I see it?

Certainly

He snatched it from her in his eagerness and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder The envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day or rather of the day before for it was considerably after midnight

Coarse writing murmured Holmes Surely this is not your husbands writing madam

No but the enclosure is

I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address

How can you tell that?

The name you see is in perfectly black ink which has dried itself The rest is of the greyish colour which shows that blotting-paper has been used If it had been written straight off and then blotted none would be of a deep black shade This man has written the name and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address which can only mean that he was not familiar with it It is of course a trifle but there is nothing so important as trifles Let us now see the letter Ha! there has been an enclosure here!

Yes there was a ring His signet-ring

And you are sure that this is your husbands hand?

One of his hands

One?

His hand when he wrote hurriedly It is very unlike his usual writing and yet I know it well

 Dearest do not be frightened All will come well There is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify Wait in patience--NEVILLE Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book octavo size no water-mark Hum! Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb Ha! And the flap has been gummed if I am not very much in error by a person who had been chewing tobacco And you have no doubt that it is your husbands hand madam?

None Neville wrote those words

And they were posted to-day at Gravesend Well Mrs St Clair the clouds lighten though I should not venture to say that the danger is over

But he must be alive Mr Holmes

Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent The ring after all proves nothing It may have been taken from him

No no; it is it is his very own writing!

Very well It may however have been written on Monday and only posted to-day

That is possible

If so much may have happened between

Oh you must not discourage me Mr Holmes I know that all is well with him There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if evil came upon him On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?

I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view But if your husband is alive and able to write letters why should he remain away from you?

I cannot imagine It is unthinkable

And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?

No

And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?

Very much so

Was the window open?

Yes

Then he might have called to you?

He might

He only as I understand gave an inarticulate cry?

Yes

A call for help you thought?

Yes He waved his hands

But it might have been a cry of surprise Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?

It is possible

And you thought he was pulled back?

He disappeared so suddenly

He might have leaped back You did not see anyone else in the room?

No but this horrible man confessed to having been there and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs

Quite so Your husband as far as you could see had his ordinary clothes on?

But without his collar or tie I distinctly saw his bare throat

Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?

Never

Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?

Never

Thank you Mrs St Clair Those are the principal points about which I wished to be absolutely clear We shall now have a little supper and then retire for we may have a very busy day to-morrow

A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal and I was quickly between the sheets for I was weary after my night of adventure Sherlock Holmes was a man however who when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind would go for days and even for a week without rest turning it over rearranging his facts looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting He took off his coat and waistcoat put on a large blue dressing-gown and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs With these he constructed a sort of Eastern divan upon which he perched himself cross-legged with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there an old briar pipe between his lips his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling the blue smoke curling up from him silent motionless with the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features So he sat as I dropped off to sleep and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment The pipe was still between his lips the smoke still curled upward and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze but nothing remained of the heap of shag which I had seen upon the previous night

Awake Watson? he asked

Yes

Game for a morning drive?

Certainly

Then dress No one is stirring yet but I know where the stable-boy sleeps and we shall soon have the trap out He chuckled to himself as he spoke his eyes twinkled and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night

As I dressed I glanced at my watch It was no wonder that no one was stirring It was twenty-five minutes past four I had hardly finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse

I want to test a little theory of mine said he pulling on his boots I think Watson that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe I deserve to be kicked from here to Charing Cross But I think I have the key of the affair now

And where is it? I asked smiling

In the bathroom he answered Oh yes I am not joking he continued seeing my look of incredulity I have just been there and I have taken it out and I have got it in this Gladstone bag Come on my boy and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock

We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible and out into the bright morning sunshine In the road stood our horse and trap with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head We both sprang in and away we dashed down the London Road A few country carts were stirring bearing in vegetables to the metropolis but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream

It has been in some points a singular case said Holmes flicking the horse on into a gallop I confess that I have been as blind as a mole but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all

In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force and the two constables at the door saluted him One of them held the horses head while the other led us in

Who is on duty? asked Holmes

Inspector Bradstreet sir

Ah Bradstreet how are you? A tall stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage in a peaked cap and frogged jacket I wish to have a quiet word with you Bradstreet Certainly Mr Holmes Step into my room here It was a small office-like room with a huge ledger upon the table and a telephone projecting from the wall The inspector sat down at his desk

What can I do for you Mr Holmes?

I called about that beggarman Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr Neville St Clair of Lee

Yes He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries

So I heard You have him here?

In the cells

Is he quiet?

Oh he gives no trouble But he is a dirty scoundrel

Dirty?

Yes it is all we can do to make him wash his hands and his face is as black as a tinkers Well when once his case has been settled he will have a regular prison bath; and I think if you saw him you would agree with me that he needed it

I should like to see him very much

Would you? That is easily done Come this way You can leave your bag

No I think that Ill take it

Very good Come this way if you please He led us down a passage opened a barred door passed down a winding stair and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side

The third on the right is his said the inspector Here it is! He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through

He is asleep said he You can see him very well

We both put our eyes to the grating The prisoner lay with his face towards us in a very deep sleep breathing slowly and heavily He was a middle-sized man coarsely clad as became his calling with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat He was as the inspector had said extremely dirty but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness A broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead

Hes a beauty isnt he? said the inspector

He certainly needs a wash remarked Holmes I had an idea that he might and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke and took out to my astonishment a very large bath-sponge

He! he! You are a funny one chuckled the inspector

Now if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure

Well I dont know why not said the inspector He doesnt look a credit to the Bow Street cells does he? He slipped his key into the lock and we all very quietly entered the cell The sleeper half turned and then settled down once more into a deep slumber Holmes stooped to the water-jug moistened his sponge and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoners face

Let me introduce you he shouted to Mr Neville St Clair of Lee in the county of Kent

Never in my life have I seen such a sight The mans face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree Gone was the coarse brown tint! Gone too was the horrid scar which had seamed it across and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face! A twitch brought away the tangled red hair and there sitting up in his bed was a pale sad-faced refined-looking man black-haired and smooth-skinned rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment Then suddenly realising the exposure he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow

Great heavens! cried the inspector it is indeed the missing man I know him from the photograph

The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny Be it so said he And pray what am I charged with?

With making away with Mr Neville St-- Oh come you cant be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it said the inspector with a grin Well I have been twenty-seven years in the force but this really takes the cake

If I am Mr Neville St Clair then it is obvious that no crime has been committed and that therefore I am illegally detained

No crime but a very great error has been committed said Holmes You would have done better to have trusted you wife

It was not the wife; it was the children groaned the prisoner God help me I would not have them ashamed of their father My God! What an exposure! What can I do?

Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder

If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up said he of course you can hardly avoid publicity On the other hand if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you I do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers Inspector Bradstreet would I am sure make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities The case would then never go into court at all

God bless you! cried the prisoner passionately I would have endured imprisonment ay even execution rather than have left my miserable secret as a family blot to my children

You are the first who have ever heard my story My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield where I received an excellent education I travelled in my youth took to the stage and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London One day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis and I volunteered to supply them There was the point from which all my adventures started It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles When an actor I had of course learned all the secrets of making up and had been famous in the green-room for my skill I took advantage now of my attainments I painted my face and to make myself as pitiable as possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster Then with a red head of hair and an appropriate dress I took my station in the business part of the city ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar For seven hours I plied my trade and when I returned home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26s 4d

I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until some time later I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for $25 I was at my wits end where to get the money but a sudden idea came to me I begged a fortnights grace from the creditor asked for a holiday from my employers and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt

Well you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at $2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint laying my cap on the ground and sitting still It was a long fight between my pride and the money but the dollars won at last and I threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers Only one man knew my secret He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town This fellow a Lascar was well paid by me for his rooms so that I knew that my secret was safe in his possession

Well very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn $700 a year--which is less than my average takings--but I had exceptional advantages in my power of making up and also in a facility of repartee which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the City All day a stream of pennies varied by silver poured in upon me and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take $2

As I grew richer I grew more ambitious took a house in the country and eventually married without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation My dear wife knew that I had business in the City She little knew what

Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw to my horror and astonishment that my wife was standing in the street with her eyes fixed full upon me I gave a cry of surprise threw up my arms to cover my face and rushing to my confidant the Lascar entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me I heard her voice downstairs but I knew that she could not ascend Swiftly I threw off my clothes pulled on those of a beggar and put on my pigments and wig Even a wifes eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise But then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room and that the clothes might betray me I threw open the window reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning Then I seized my coat which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which I carried my takings I hurled it out of the window and it disappeared into the Thames The other clothes would have followed but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair and a few minutes after I found rather I confess to my relief that instead of being identified as Mr Neville St Clair I was arrested as his murderer

I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain I was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible and hence my preference for a dirty face Knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me together with a hurried scrawl telling her that she had no cause to fear

That note only reached her yesterday said Holmes

Good God! What a week she must have spent!

The police have watched this Lascar said Inspector Bradstreet and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter unobserved Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his who forgot all about it for some days

That was it said Holmes nodding approvingly; I have no doubt of it But have you never been prosecuted for begging?

Many times; but what was a fine to me?

It must stop here however said Bradstreet If the police are to hush this thing up there must be no more of Hugh Boone

I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take

In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken But if you are found again then all must come out I am sure Mr Holmes that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up I wish I knew how you reach your results

I reached this one said my friend by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag I think Watson that if we drive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast

VII  THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE


I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right and a pile of crumpled morning papers evidently newly studied near at hand Beside the couch was a wooden chair and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat much the worse for wear and cracked in several places A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination

You are engaged said I; perhaps I interrupt you

Not at all I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results The matter is a perfectly trivial one--he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat--but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction

I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire for a sharp frost had set in and the windows were thick with the ice crystals I suppose I remarked that homely as it looks this thing has some deadly story linked on to it--that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime

No no No crime said Sherlock Holmes laughing Only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity every possible combination of events may be expected to take place and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal We have already had experience of such

So much so I remarked that of the last six cases which I have added to my notes three have been entirely free of any legal crime

Precisely You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip Well I have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category You know Peterson the commissionaire?

Yes

It is to him that this trophy belongs

It is his hat

No no he found it Its owner is unknown I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem And first as to how it came here It arrived upon Christmas morning in company with a good fat goose which is I have no doubt roasting at this moment in front of Petersons fire The facts are these: about four oclock on Christmas morning Peterson who as you know is a very honest fellow was returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road In front of him he saw in the gaslight a tallish man walking with a slight stagger and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder As he reached the corner of Goodge Street a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs One of the latter knocked off the mans hat on which he raised his stick to defend himself and swinging it over his head smashed the shop window behind him Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man shocked at having broken the window and seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him dropped his goose took to his heels and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson so that he was left in possession of the field of battle and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose

Which surely he restored to their owner?

My dear fellow there lies the problem It is true that For Mrs Henry Baker was printed upon a small card which was tied to the birds left leg and it is also true that the initials H B are legible upon the lining of this hat but as there are some thousands of Bakers and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them

What then did Peterson do?

He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me The goose we retained until this morning when there were signs that in spite of the slight frost it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay Its finder has carried it off therefore to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner

Did he not advertise?

No

Then what clue could you have as to his identity?

Only as much as we can deduce

From his hat?

Precisely

But you are joking What can you gather from this old battered felt?

Here is my lens You know my methods What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?

I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape hard and much the worse for wear The lining had been of red silk but was a good deal discoloured There was no makers name; but as Holmes had remarked the initials H B were scrawled upon one side It was pierced in the brim for a hat-securer but the elastic was missing For the rest it was cracked exceedingly dusty and spotted in several places although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink

I can see nothing said I handing it back to my friend

On the contrary Watson you can see everything You fail however to reason from what you see You are too timid in drawing your inferences

Then pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?

He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been he remarked and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years although he has now fallen upon evil days He had foresight but has less now than formerly pointing to a moral retrogression which when taken with the decline of his fortunes seems to indicate some evil influence probably drink at work upon him This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him

My dear Holmes!

He has however retained some degree of self-respect he continued disregarding my remonstrance He is a man who leads a sedentary life goes out little is out of training entirely is middle-aged has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days and which he anoints with lime-cream These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat Also by the way that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house

You are certainly joking Holmes

Not in the least Is it possible that even now when I give you these results you are unable to see how they are attained?

I have no doubt that I am very stupid but I must confess that I am unable to follow you For example how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?

For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose It is a question of cubic capacity said he; a man with so large a brain must have something in it

The decline of his fortunes then?

This hat is three years old These flat brims curled at the edge came in then It is a hat of the very best quality Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago and has had no hat since then he has assuredly gone down in the world

Well that is clear enough certainly But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?

Sherlock Holmes laughed Here is the foresight said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer They are never sold upon hats If this man ordered one it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace it it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature On the other hand he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect

Your reasoning is certainly plausible

The further points that he is middle-aged that his hair is grizzled that it has been recently cut and that he uses lime-cream are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends clean cut by the scissors of the barber They all appear to be adhesive and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream This dust you will observe is not the gritty grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely and could therefore hardly be in the best of training

But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him

This hat has not been brushed for weeks When I see you my dear Watson with a weeks accumulation of dust upon your hat and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state I shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wifes affection

But he might be a bachelor

Nay he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife Remember the card upon the birds leg

You have an answer to everything But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?

One tallow stain or even two might come by chance; but when I see no less than five I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other Anyhow he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet Are you satisfied?

Well it is very ingenious said I laughing; but since as you said just now there has been no crime committed and no harm done save the loss of a goose all this seems to be rather a waste of energy

Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply when the door flew open and Peterson the commissionaire rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment

The goose Mr Holmes! The goose sir! he gasped

Eh? What of it then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window? Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the mans excited face

See here sir! See what my wife found in its crop! He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone rather smaller than a bean in size but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand

Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle By Jove Peterson! said he this is treasure trove indeed I suppose you know what you have got?

A diamond sir? A precious stone It cuts into glass as though it were putty

Its more than a precious stone It is the precious stone

Not the Countess of Morcars blue carbuncle! I ejaculated

Precisely so I ought to know its size and shape seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately It is absolutely unique and its value can only be conjectured but the reward offered of $1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price

A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy! The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us

That is the reward and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem

It was lost if I remember aright at the Hotel Cosmopolitan I remarked

Precisely so on December 22nd just five days ago John Horner a plumber was accused of having abstracted it from the ladys jewel-case The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the Assizes I have some account of the matter here I believe He rummaged amid his newspapers glancing over the dates until at last he smoothed one out doubled it over and read the following paragraph:

Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery John Horner 26 plumber was brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle James Ryder upper-attendant at the hotel gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate which was loose He had remained with Horner some little time but had finally been called away On returning he found that Horner had disappeared that the bureau had been forced open and that the small morocco casket in which as it afterwards transpired the Countess was accustomed to keep her jewel was lying empty upon the dressing-table Ryder instantly gave the alarm and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms Catherine Cusack maid to the Countess deposed to having heard Ryders cry of dismay on discovering the robbery and to having rushed into the room where she found matters as described by the last witness Inspector Bradstreet B division gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner who struggled frantically and protested his innocence in the strongest terms Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence but referred it to the Assizes Horner who had shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of court

Hum! So much for the police-court said Holmes thoughtfully tossing aside the paper The question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other You see Watson our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose and the goose came from Mr Henry Baker the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which I have bored you So now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery To do this we must try the simplest means first and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers If this fail I shall have recourse to other methods

What will you say?

Give me a pencil and that slip of paper Now then: Found at the corner of Goodge Street a goose and a black felt hat Mr Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B Baker Street That is clear and concise

Very But will he see it?

Well he is sure to keep an eye on the papers since to a poor man the loss was a heavy one He was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but flight but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird Then again the introduction of his name will cause him to see it for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it Here you are Peterson run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers

In which sir?

Oh in the Globe Star Pall Mall St Jamess Evening News Standard Echo and any others that occur to you

Very well sir And this stone?

Ah yes I shall keep the stone Thank you And I say Peterson just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring

When the commissionaire had gone Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light Its a bonny thing said he Just see how it glints and sparkles Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime Every good stone is They are the devils pet baits In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed This stone is not yet twenty years old It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red In spite of its youth it has already a sinister history There have been two murders a vitriol-throwing a suicide and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison? Ill lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it

Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?

I cannot tell

Well then do you imagine that this other one Henry Baker had anything to do with the matter?

It is I think much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold That however I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement

And you can do nothing until then?

Nothing

In that case I shall continue my professional round But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business

Very glad to see you I dine at seven There is a woodcock I believe By the way in view of recent occurrences perhaps I ought to ask Mrs Hudson to examine its crop

I had been delayed at a case and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight Just as I arrived the door was opened and we were shown up together to Holmes room

Mr Henry Baker I believe said he rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume Pray take this chair by the fire Mr Baker It is a cold night and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter Ah Watson you have just come at the right time Is that your hat Mr Baker?

Yes sir that is undoubtedly my hat

He was a large man with rounded shoulders a massive head and a broad intelligent face sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown A touch of red in nose and cheeks with a slight tremor of his extended hand recalled Holmes surmise as to his habits His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in front with the collar turned up and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt He spoke in a slow staccato fashion choosing his words with care and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune

We have retained these things for some days said Holmes because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise

Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were he remarked I had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the bird I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them

Very naturally By the way about the bird we were compelled to eat it

To eat it! Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement

Yes it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh will answer your purpose equally well?

Oh certainly certainly answered Mr Baker with a sigh of relief

Of course we still have the feathers legs crop and so on of your own bird so if you wish--

The man burst into a hearty laugh They might be useful to me as relics of my adventure said he but beyond that I can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me No sir I think that with your permission I will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard

Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders

There is your hat then and there your bird said he By the way would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from? I am somewhat of a fowl fancier and I have seldom seen a better grown goose

Certainly sir said Baker who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn near the Museum--we are to be found in the Museum itself during the day you understand This year our good host Windigate by name instituted a goose club by which on consideration of some few pence every week we were each to receive a bird at Christmas My pence were duly paid and the rest is familiar to you I am much indebted to you sir for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way

So much for Mr Henry Baker said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter Are you hungry Watson?

Not particularly

Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot

By all means

It was a bitter night so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats Outside the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors quarter Wimpole Street Harley Street and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into Holborn Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced white-aproned landlord

Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese said he

My geese! The man seemed surprised

Yes I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr Henry Baker who was a member of your goose club

Ah! yes I see But you see sir thems not our geese

Indeed! Whose then?

Well I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden

Indeed? I know some of them Which was it?

Breckinridge is his name

Ah! I dont know him Well heres your good health landlord and prosperity to your house Good-night

Now for Mr Breckinridge he continued buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air Remember Watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence It is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but in any case we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police and which a singular chance has placed in our hands Let us follow it out to the bitter end Faces to the south then and quick march!

We passed across Holborn down Endell Street and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it and the proprietor a horsey-looking man with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters

Good-evening Its a cold night said Holmes

The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion

Sold out of geese I see continued Holmes pointing at the bare slabs of marble

Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning

Thats no good

Well there are some on the stall with the gas-flare

Ah but I was recommended to you

Who by?

The landlord of the Alpha

Oh yes; I sent him a couple of dozen

Fine birds they were too Now where did you get them from?

To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman

Now then mister said he with his head cocked and his arms akimbo what are you driving at? Lets have it straight now

It is straight enough I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha

Well then I shant tell you So now!

Oh it is a matter of no importance; but I dont know why you should be so warm over such a trifle

Warm! Youd be as warm maybe if you were as pestered as I am When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but its Where are the geese? and Who did you sell the geese to? and What will you take for the geese? One would think they were the only geese in the world to hear the fuss that is made over them

Well I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries said Holmes carelessly If you wont tell us the bet is off that is all But Im always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country bred

Well then youve lost your fiver for its town bred snapped the salesman

Its nothing of the kind

I say it is

I dont believe it

Dyou think you know more about fowls than I who have handled them ever since I was a nipper? I tell you all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred

Youll never persuade me to believe that

Will you bet then?

Its merely taking your money for I know that I am right But Ill have a sovereign on with you just to teach you not to be obstinate

The salesman chuckled grimly Bring me the books Bill said he

The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp

Now then Mr Cocksure said the salesman I thought that I was out of geese but before I finish youll find that there is still one left in my shop You see this little book?

Well?

Thats the list of the folk from whom I buy Dyou see? Well then here on this page are the country folk and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger Now then! You see this other page in red ink? Well that is a list of my town suppliers Now look at that third name Just read it out to me

Mrs Oakshott 117 Brixton Road--249 read Holmes

Quite so Now turn that up in the ledger

Holmes turned to the page indicated Here you are Mrs Oakshott 117 Brixton Road egg and poultry supplier 

Now then whats the last entry?

 December 22nd Twenty-four geese at 7s 6d 

Quite so There you are And underneath?

 Sold to Mr Windigate of the Alpha at 12s 

What have you to say now?

Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined He drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him

When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the Pink un protruding out of his pocket you can always draw him by a bet said he I daresay that if I had put $100 down in front of him that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager Well Watson we are I fancy nearing the end of our quest and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs Oakshott to-night or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow It is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter and I should--

His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp while Breckinridge the salesman framed in the door of his stall was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure

Ive had enough of you and your geese he shouted I wish you were all at the devil together If you come pestering me any more with your silly talk Ill set the dog at you You bring Mrs Oakshott here and Ill answer her but what have you to do with it? Did I buy the geese off you?

No; but one of them was mine all the same whined the little man

Well then ask Mrs Oakshott for it

She told me to ask you

Well you can ask the King of Proosia for all I care Ive had enough of it Get out of this! He rushed fiercely forward and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness

Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road whispered Holmes Come with me and we will see what is to be made of this fellow Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder He sprang round and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face

Who are you then? What do you want? he asked in a quavering voice

You will excuse me said Holmes blandly but I could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now I think that I could be of assistance to you

You? Who are you? How could you know anything of the matter?

My name is Sherlock Holmes It is my business to know what other people dont know

But you can know nothing of this?

Excuse me I know everything of it You are endeavouring to trace some geese which were sold by Mrs Oakshott of Brixton Road to a salesman named Breckinridge by him in turn to Mr Windigate of the Alpha and by him to his club of which Mr Henry Baker is a member

Oh sir you are the very man whom I have longed to meet cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter

Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place said he But pray tell me before we go farther who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting

The man hesitated for an instant My name is John Robinson he answered with a sidelong glance

No no; the real name said Holmes sweetly It is always awkward doing business with an alias

A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger Well then said he my real name is James Ryder

Precisely so Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan Pray step into the cab and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know

The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened half-hopeful eyes as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe Then he stepped into the cab and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street Nothing had been said during our drive but the high thin breathing of our new companion and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands spoke of the nervous tension within him

Here we are! said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room The fire looks very seasonable in this weather You look cold Mr Ryder Pray take the basket-chair I will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours Now then! You want to know what became of those geese?

Yes sir

Or rather I fancy of that goose It was one bird I imagine in which you were interested--white with a black bar across the tail

Ryder quivered with emotion Oh sir he cried can you tell me where it went to?

It came here

Here?

Yes and a most remarkable bird it proved I dont wonder that you should take an interest in it It laid an egg after it was dead--the bonniest brightest little blue egg that ever was seen I have it here in my museum

Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle which shone out like a star with a cold brilliant many-pointed radiance Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face uncertain whether to claim or to disown it

The games up Ryder said Holmes quietly Hold up man or youll be into the fire! Give him an arm back into his chair Watson Hes not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity Give him a dash of brandy So! Now he looks a little more human What a shrimp it is to be sure!

For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser

I have almost every link in my hands and all the proofs which I could possibly need so there is little which you need tell me Still that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete You had heard Ryder of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcars?

It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it said he in a crackling voice

I see--her ladyships waiting-maid Well the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you as it has been for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used It seems to me Ryder that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you You knew that this man Horner the plumber had been concerned in some such matter before and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him What did you do then? You made some small job in my ladys room--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that he should be the man sent for Then when he had left you rifled the jewel-case raised the alarm and had this unfortunate man arrested You then--

Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companions knees For Gods sake have mercy! he shrieked Think of my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts I never went wrong before! I never will again I swear it Ill swear it on a Bible Oh dont bring it into court! For Christs sake dont!

Get back into your chair! said Holmes sternly It is very well to cringe and crawl now but you thought little enough of this poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing

I will fly Mr Holmes I will leave the country sir Then the charge against him will break down

Hum! We will talk about that And now let us hear a true account of the next act How came the stone into the goose and how came the goose into the open market? Tell us the truth for there lies your only hope of safety

Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips I will tell you it just as it happened sir said he When Horner had been arrested it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe I went out as if on some commission and I made for my sisters house She had married a man named Oakshott and lived in Brixton Road where she fattened fowls for the market All the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective; and for all that it was a cold night the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road My sister asked me what was the matter and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do

I had a friend once called Maudsley who went to the bad and has just been serving his time in Pentonville One day he had met me and fell into talk about the ways of thieves and how they could get rid of what they stole I knew that he would be true to me for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn where he lived and take him into my confidence He would show me how to turn the stone into money But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel I might at any moment be seized and searched and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived

My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of her geese for a Christmas present and I knew that she was always as good as her word I would take my goose now and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn There was a little shed in the yard and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big one white with a barred tail I caught it and prying its bill open I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach The bird gave a gulp and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop But the creature flapped and struggled and out came my sister to know what was the matter As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others

 Whatever were you doing with that bird Jem? says she

 Well said I you said youd give me one for Christmas and I was feeling which was the fattest

 Oh says she weve set yours aside for you--Jems bird we call it Its the big white one over yonder Theres twenty-six of them which makes one for you and one for us and two dozen for the market

 Thank you Maggie says I; but if it is all the same to you Id rather have that one I was handling just now

 The other is a good three pound heavier said she and we fattened it expressly for you

 Never mind Ill have the other and Ill take it now said I

 Oh just as you like said she a little huffed Which is it you want then?

 That white one with the barred tail right in the middle of the flock

 Oh very well Kill it and take it with you

Well I did what she said Mr Holmes and I carried the bird all the way to Kilburn I told my pal what I had done for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to He laughed until he choked and we got a knife and opened the goose My heart turned to water for there was no sign of the stone and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred I left the bird rushed back to my sisters and hurried into the back yard There was not a bird to be seen there

 Where are they all Maggie? I cried

 Gone to the dealers Jem

 Which dealers?

 Breckinridge of Covent Garden

 But was there another with a barred tail? I asked the same as the one I chose?

 Yes Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones and I could never tell them apart

Well then of course I saw it all and I ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at once and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone You heard him yourselves to-night Well he has always answered me like that My sister thinks that I am going mad Sometimes I think that I am myself And now--and now I am myself a branded thief without ever having touched the wealth for which I sold my character God help me! God help me! He burst into convulsive sobbing with his face buried in his hands

There was a long silence broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes finger-tips upon the edge of the table Then my friend rose and threw open the door

Get out! said he

What sir! Oh Heaven bless you!

No more words Get out!

And no more words were needed There was a rush a clatter upon the stairs the bang of a door and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street

After all Watson said Holmes reaching up his hand for his clay pipe I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies If Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not appear against him and the case must collapse I suppose that I am commuting a felony but it is just possible that I am saving a soul This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened Send him to gaol now and you make him a gaol-bird for life Besides it is the season of forgiveness Chance has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem and its solution is its own reward If you will have the goodness to touch the bell Doctor we will begin another investigation in which also a bird will be the chief feature

VIII  THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND


On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes I find many tragic some comic a large number merely strange but none commonplace; for working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth he refused to associate himself with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual and even the fantastic Of all these varied cases however I cannot recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before but a promise of secrecy was made at the time from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given It is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light for I have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of Dr Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth

It was early in April in the year 83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing fully dressed by the side of my bed He was a late riser as a rule and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven I blinked up at him in some surprise and perhaps just a little resentment for I was myself regular in my habits

Very sorry to knock you up Watson said he but its the common lot this morning Mrs Hudson has been knocked up she retorted upon me and I on you

What is it then--a fire?

No; a client It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement who insists upon seeing me She is waiting now in the sitting-room Now when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning and knock sleepy people up out of their beds I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate Should it prove to be an interesting case you would I am sure wish to follow it from the outset I thought at any rate that I should call you and give you the chance

My dear fellow I would not miss it for anything

I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional investigations and in admiring the rapid deductions as swift as intuitions and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled who had been sitting in the window rose as we entered

Good-morning madam said Holmes cheerily My name is Sherlock Holmes This is my intimate friend and associate Dr Watson before whom you can speak as freely as before myself Ha! I am glad to see that Mrs Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire Pray draw up to it and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee for I observe that you are shivering

It is not cold which makes me shiver said the woman in a low voice changing her seat as requested

What then?

It is fear Mr Holmes It is terror She raised her veil as she spoke and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation her face all drawn and grey with restless frightened eyes like those of some hunted animal Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty but her hair was shot with premature grey and her expression was weary and haggard Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick all-comprehensive glances

You must not fear said he soothingly bending forward and patting her forearm We shall soon set matters right I have no doubt You have come in by train this morning I see

You know me then?

No but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove You must have started early and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart along heavy roads before you reached the station

The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion

There is no mystery my dear madam said he smiling The left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places The marks are perfectly fresh There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which throws up mud in that way and then only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver

Whatever your reasons may be you are perfectly correct said she I started from home before six reached Leatherhead at twenty past and came in by the first train to Waterloo Sir I can stand this strain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues I have no one to turn to--none save only one who cares for me and he poor fellow can be of little aid I have heard of you Mr Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs Farintosh whom you helped in the hour of her sore need It was from her that I had your address Oh sir do you not think that you could help me too and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me? At present it is out of my power to reward you for your services but in a month or six weeks I shall be married with the control of my own income and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful

Holmes turned to his desk and unlocking it drew out a small case-book which he consulted

Farintosh said he Ah yes I recall the case; it was concerned with an opal tiara I think it was before your time Watson I can only say madam that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend As to reward my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put to at the time which suits you best And now I beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter

Alas! replied our visitor the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points which might seem trivial to another that even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman He does not say so but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes But I have heard Mr Holmes that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart You may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me

I am all attention madam

My name is Helen Stoner and I am living with my stepfather who is the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England the Roylotts of Stoke Moran on the western border of Surrey

Holmes nodded his head The name is familiar to me said he

The family was at one time among the richest in England and the estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north and Hampshire in the west In the last century however four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency Nothing was left save a few acres of ground and the two-hundred-year-old house which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage The last squire dragged out his existence there living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; but his only son my stepfather seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions obtained an advance from a relative which enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to Calcutta where by his professional skill and his force of character he established a large practice In a fit of anger however caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence As it was he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and disappointed man

When Dr Roylott was in India he married my mother Mrs Stoner the young widow of Major-General Stoner of the Bengal Artillery My sister Julia and I were twins and we were only two years old at the time of my mothers re-marriage She had a considerable sum of money--not less than $1000 a year--and this she bequeathed to Dr Roylott entirely while we resided with him with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage Shortly after our return to England my mother died--she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe Dr Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness

But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old family seat he shut himself up in his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his path Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family and in my stepfathers case it had I believe been intensified by his long residence in the tropics A series of disgraceful brawls took place two of which ended in the police-court until at last he became the terror of the village and the folks would fly at his approach for he is a man of immense strength and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger

Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather together that I was able to avert another public exposure He had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land which represent the family estate and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end He has a passion also for Indian animals which are sent over to him by a correspondent and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master

You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives No servant would stay with us and for a long time we did all the work of the house She was but thirty at the time of her death and yet her hair had already begun to whiten even as mine has

Your sister is dead then?

She died just two years ago and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you You can understand that living the life which I have described we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position We had however an aunt my mothers maiden sister Miss Honoria Westphail who lives near Harrow and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this ladys house Julia went there at Christmas two years ago and met there a half-pay major of marines to whom she became engaged My stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion

Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion but he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor

Pray be precise as to details said he

It is easy for me to be so for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory The manor-house is as I have already said very old and only one wing is now inhabited The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings Of these bedrooms the first is Dr Roylotts the second my sisters and the third my own There is no communication between them but they all open out into the same corridor Do I make myself plain?

Perfectly so

The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn That fatal night Dr Roylott had gone to his room early though we knew that he had not retired to rest for my sister was troubled by the smell of the strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke She left her room therefore and came into mine where she sat for some time chatting about her approaching wedding At eleven oclock she rose to leave me but she paused at the door and looked back

 Tell me Helen said she have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?

 Never said I

 I suppose that you could not possibly whistle yourself in your sleep?

 Certainly not But why?

 Because during the last few nights I have always about three in the morning heard a low clear whistle I am a light sleeper and it has awakened me I cannot tell where it came from--perhaps from the next room perhaps from the lawn I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it

 No I have not It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation

 Very likely And yet if it were on the lawn I wonder that you did not hear it also

 Ah but I sleep more heavily than you

 Well it is of no great consequence at any rate She smiled back at me closed my door and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the lock

Indeed said Holmes Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?

Always

And why?

I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked

Quite so Pray proceed with your statement

I could not sleep that night A vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me My sister and I you will recollect were twins and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied It was a wild night The wind was howling outside and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows Suddenly amid all the hubbub of the gale there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman I knew that it was my sisters voice I sprang from my bed wrapped a shawl round me and rushed into the corridor As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle such as my sister described and a few moments later a clanging sound as if a mass of metal had fallen As I ran down the passage my sisters door was unlocked and revolved slowly upon its hinges I stared at it horror-stricken not knowing what was about to issue from it By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the opening her face blanched with terror her hands groping for help her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard I ran to her and threw my arms round her but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground She writhed as one who is in terrible pain and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed At first I thought that she had not recognised me but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget Oh my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band! There was something else which she would fain have said and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctors room but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words I rushed out calling loudly for my stepfather and I met him hastening from his room in his dressing-gown When he reached my sisters side she was unconscious and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village all efforts were in vain for she slowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister

One moment said Holmes are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound? Could you swear to it?

That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry It is my strong impression that I heard it and yet among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house I may possibly have been deceived

Was your sister dressed?

No she was in her night-dress In her right hand was found the charred stump of a match and in her left a match-box

Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place That is important And what conclusions did the coroner come to?

He investigated the case with great care for Dr Roylotts conduct had long been notorious in the county but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death My evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars which were secured every night The walls were carefully sounded and were shown to be quite solid all round and the flooring was also thoroughly examined with the same result The chimney is wide but is barred up by four large staples It is certain therefore that my sister was quite alone when she met her end Besides there were no marks of any violence upon her

How about poison?

The doctors examined her for it but without success

What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of then?

It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine

Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?

Yes there are nearly always some there

Ah and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?

Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation I do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used

Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied

These are very deep waters said he; pray go on with your narrative

Two years have passed since then and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever A month ago however a dear friend whom I have known for many years has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage His name is Armitage--Percy Armitage--the second son of Mr Armitage of Crane Water near Reading My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match and we are to be married in the course of the spring Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building and my bedroom wall has been pierced so that I have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept Imagine then my thrill of terror when last night as I lay awake thinking over her terrible fate I suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death I sprang up and lit the lamp but nothing was to be seen in the room I was too shaken to go to bed again however so I dressed and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn which is opposite and drove to Leatherhead from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice

You have done wisely said my friend But have you told me all?

Yes all

Miss Roylott you have not You are screening your stepfather

Why what do you mean?

For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitors knee Five little livid spots the marks of four fingers and a thumb were printed upon the white wrist

You have been cruelly used said Holmes

The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist He is a hard man she said and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength

There was a long silence during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire

This is a very deep business he said at last There are a thousand details which I should desire to know before I decide upon our course of action Yet we have not a moment to lose If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?

As it happens he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business It is probable that he will be away all day and that there would be nothing to disturb you We have a housekeeper now but she is old and foolish and I could easily get her out of the way

Excellent You are not averse to this trip Watson?

By no means

Then we shall both come What are you going to do yourself?

I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town But I shall return by the twelve oclock train so as to be there in time for your coming

And you may expect us early in the afternoon I have myself some small business matters to attend to Will you not wait and breakfast?

No I must go My heart is lightened already since I have confided my trouble to you I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room

And what do you think of it all Watson? asked Sherlock Holmes leaning back in his chair

It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business

Dark enough and sinister enough

Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound and that the door window and chimney are impassable then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end

What becomes then of these nocturnal whistles and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?

I cannot think

When you combine the ideas of whistles at night the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an interest in preventing his stepdaughters marriage the dying allusion to a band and finally the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a metallic clang which might have been caused by one of those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its place I think that there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along those lines

But what then did the gipsies do?

I cannot imagine

I see many objections to any such theory

And so do I It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day I want to see whether the objections are fatal or if they may be explained away But what in the name of the devil!

The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture His costume was a peculiar mixture of the professional and of the agricultural having a black top-hat a long frock-coat and a pair of high gaiters with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side A large face seared with a thousand wrinkles burned yellow with the sun and marked with every evil passion was turned from one to the other of us while his deep-set bile-shot eyes and his high thin fleshless nose gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey

Which of you is Holmes? asked this apparition

My name sir; but you have the advantage of me said my companion quietly

I am Dr Grimesby Roylott of Stoke Moran

Indeed Doctor said Holmes blandly Pray take a seat

I will do nothing of the kind My stepdaughter has been here I have traced her What has she been saying to you?

It is a little cold for the time of the year said Holmes

What has she been saying to you? screamed the old man furiously

But I have heard that the crocuses promise well continued my companion imperturbably

Ha! You put me off do you? said our new visitor taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop I know you you scoundrel! I have heard of you before You are Holmes the meddler

My friend smiled

Holmes the busybody!

His smile broadened

Holmes the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!

Holmes chuckled heartily Your conversation is most entertaining said he When you go out close the door for there is a decided draught

I will go when I have said my say Dont you dare to meddle with my affairs I know that Miss Stoner has been here I traced her! I am a dangerous man to fall foul of! See here He stepped swiftly forward seized the poker and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands

See that you keep yourself out of my grip he snarled and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room

He seems a very amiable person said Holmes laughing I am not quite so bulky but if he had remained I might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own As he spoke he picked up the steel poker and with a sudden effort straightened it out again

Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation however and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her And now Watson we shall order breakfast and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors Commons where I hope to get some data which may help us in this matter

It was nearly one oclock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper scrawled over with notes and figures

I have seen the will of the deceased wife said he To determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned The total income which at the time of the wifes death was little short of $1100 is now through the fall in agricultural prices not more than $750 Each daughter can claim an income of $250 in case of marriage It is evident therefore that if both girls had married this beauty would have had a mere pittance while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent My mornings work has not been wasted since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort And now Watson this is too serious for dawdling especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo I should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket An Eleys No 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots That and a tooth-brush are I think all that we need

At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes It was a perfect day with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth To me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged My companion sat in the front of the trap his arms folded his hat pulled down over his eyes and his chin sunk upon his breast buried in the deepest thought Suddenly however he started tapped me on the shoulder and pointed over the meadows

Look there! said he

A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope thickening into a grove at the highest point From amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion

Stoke Moran? said he

Yes sir that be the house of Dr Grimesby Roylott remarked the driver

There is some building going on there said Holmes; that is where we are going

Theres the village said the driver pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance to the left; but if you want to get to the house youll find it shorter to get over this stile and so by the foot-path over the fields There it is where the lady is walking

And the lady I fancy is Miss Stoner observed Holmes shading his eyes Yes I think we had better do as you suggest

We got off paid our fare and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead

I thought it as well said Holmes as we climbed the stile that this fellow should think we had come here as architects or on some definite business It may stop his gossip Good-afternoon Miss Stoner You see that we have been as good as our word

Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy I have been waiting so eagerly for you she cried shaking hands with us warmly All has turned out splendidly Dr Roylott has gone to town and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening

We have had the pleasure of making the doctors acquaintance said Holmes and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened

Good heavens! she cried he has followed me then

So it appears

He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him What will he say when he returns?

He must guard himself for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track You must lock yourself up from him to-night If he is violent we shall take you away to your aunts at Harrow Now we must make the best use of our time so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine

The building was of grey lichen-blotched stone with a high central portion and two curving wings like the claws of a crab thrown out on each side In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards while the roof was partly caved in a picture of ruin The central portion was in little better repair but the right-hand block was comparatively modern and the blinds in the windows with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys showed that this was where the family resided Some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall and the stone-work had been broken into but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows

This I take it belongs to the room in which you used to sleep the centre one to your sisters and the one next to the main building to Dr Roylotts chamber?

Exactly so But I am now sleeping in the middle one

Pending the alterations as I understand By the way there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall

There were none I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room

Ah! that is suggestive Now on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open There are windows in it of course?

Yes but very small ones Too narrow for anyone to pass through

As you both locked your doors at night your rooms were unapproachable from that side Now would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?

Miss Stoner did so and Holmes after a careful examination through the open window endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open but without success There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar Then with his lens he tested the hinges but they were of solid iron built firmly into the massive masonry Hum! said he scratching his chin in some perplexity my theory certainly presents some difficulties No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted Well we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter

A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened Holmes refused to examine the third chamber so we passed at once to the second that in which Miss Stoner was now sleeping and in which her sister had met with her fate It was a homely little room with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace after the fashion of old country-houses A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window These articles with two small wicker-work chairs made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre The boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown worm-eaten oak so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down taking in every detail of the apartment

Where does that bell communicate with? he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed the tassel actually lying upon the pillow

It goes to the housekeepers room

It looks newer than the other things?

Yes it was only put there a couple of years ago

Your sister asked for it I suppose?

No I never heard of her using it We used always to get what we wanted for ourselves

Indeed it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this floor He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward examining minutely the cracks between the boards Then he did the same with the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug

Why its a dummy said he

Wont it ring?

No it is not even attached to a wire This is very interesting You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is

How very absurd! I never noticed that before

Very strange! muttered Holmes pulling at the rope There are one or two very singular points about this room For example what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room when with the same trouble he might have communicated with the outside air!

That is also quite modern said the lady

Done about the same time as the bell-rope? remarked Holmes

Yes there were several little changes carried out about that time

They seem to have been of a most interesting character--dummy bell-ropes and ventilators which do not ventilate With your permission Miss Stoner we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment

Dr Grimesby Roylotts chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter but was as plainly furnished A camp-bed a small wooden shelf full of books mostly of a technical character an armchair beside the bed a plain wooden chair against the wall a round table and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest

Whats in here? he asked tapping the safe

My stepfathers business papers

Oh! you have seen inside then?

Only once some years ago I remember that it was full of papers

There isnt a cat in it for example?

No What a strange idea!

Well look at this! He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it

No; we dont keep a cat But there is a cheetah and a baboon

Ah yes of course! Well a cheetah is just a big cat and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants I daresay There is one point which I should wish to determine He squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention

Thank you That is quite settled said he rising and putting his lens in his pocket Hullo! Here is something interesting!

The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed The lash however was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord

What do you make of that Watson?

Its a common enough lash But I dont know why it should be tied

That is not quite so common is it? Ah me! its a wicked world and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all I think that I have seen enough now Miss Stoner and with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn

I had never seen my friends face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation We had walked several times up and down the lawn neither Miss Stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie

It is very essential Miss Stoner said he that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect

I shall most certainly do so

The matter is too serious for any hesitation Your life may depend upon your compliance

I assure you that I am in your hands

In the first place both my friend and I must spend the night in your room

Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment

Yes it must be so Let me explain I believe that that is the village inn over there?

Yes that is the Crown

Very good Your windows would be visible from there?

Certainly

You must confine yourself to your room on pretence of a headache when your stepfather comes back Then when you hear him retire for the night you must open the shutters of your window undo the hasp put your lamp there as a signal to us and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy I have no doubt that in spite of the repairs you could manage there for one night

Oh yes easily

The rest you will leave in our hands

But what will you do?

We shall spend the night in your room and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you

I believe Mr Holmes that you have already made up your mind said Miss Stoner laying her hand upon my companions sleeve

Perhaps I have

Then for pitys sake tell me what was the cause of my sisters death

I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak

You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct and if she died from some sudden fright

No I do not think so I think that there was probably some more tangible cause And now Miss Stoner we must leave you for if Dr Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain Good-bye and be brave for if you will do what I have told you you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you

Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn They were on the upper floor and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate and of the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House At dusk we saw Dr Grimesby Roylott drive past his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates and we heard the hoarse roar of the doctors voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him The trap drove on and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms

Do you know Watson said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night There is a distinct element of danger

Can I be of assistance?

Your presence might be invaluable

Then I shall certainly come

It is very kind of you

You speak of danger You have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me

No but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more I imagine that you saw all that I did

I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine

You saw the ventilator too?

Yes but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms It was so small that a rat could hardly pass through

I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran

My dear Holmes!

Oh yes I did You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr Roylotts cigar Now of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms It could only be a small one or it would have been remarked upon at the coroners inquiry I deduced a ventilator

But what harm can there be in that?

Well there is at least a curious coincidence of dates A ventilator is made a cord is hung and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies Does not that strike you?

I cannot as yet see any connection

Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?

No

It was clamped to the floor Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?

I cannot say that I have

The lady could not move her bed It must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope--or so we may call it since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull

Holmes I cried I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime

Subtle enough and horrible enough When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals He has nerve and he has knowledge Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession This man strikes even deeper but I think Watson that we shall be able to strike deeper still But we shall have horrors enough before the night is over; for goodness sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful

About nine oclock the light among the trees was extinguished and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House Two hours passed slowly away and then suddenly just at the stroke of eleven a single bright light shone out right in front of us

That is our signal said Holmes springing to his feet; it comes from the middle window

As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance and that it was possible that we might spend the night there A moment later we were out on the dark road a chill wind blowing in our faces and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand

There was little difficulty in entering the grounds for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall Making our way among the trees we reached the lawn crossed it and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness

My God! I whispered; did you see it?

Holmes was for the moment as startled as I His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear

It is a nice household he murmured That is the baboon

I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected There was a cheetah too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment I confess that I felt easier in my mind when after following Holmes example and slipping off my shoes I found myself inside the bedroom My companion noiselessly closed the shutters moved the lamp onto the table and cast his eyes round the room All was as we had seen it in the daytime Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that I could do to distinguish the words:

The least sound would be fatal to our plans

I nodded to show that I had heard

We must sit without light He would see it through the ventilator

I nodded again

Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it Have your pistol ready in case we should need it I will sit on the side of the bed and you in that chair

I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table

Holmes had brought up a long thin cane and this he placed upon the bed beside him By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle Then he turned down the lamp and we were left in darkness

How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a sound not even the drawing of a breath and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed within a few feet of me in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself The shutters cut off the least ray of light and we waited in absolute darkness

From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird and once at our very window a long drawn catlike whine which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock which boomed out every quarter of an hour How long they seemed those quarters! Twelve struck and one and two and three and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall

Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction of the ventilator which vanished immediately but was succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern I heard a gentle sound of movement and then all was silent once more though the smell grew stronger For half an hour I sat with straining ears Then suddenly another sound became audible--a very gentle soothing sound like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle The instant that we heard it Holmes sprang from the bed struck a match and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull

You see it Watson? he yelled You see it?

But I saw nothing At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a low clear whistle but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so savagely I could however see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing He had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened It swelled up louder and louder a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek They say that away down in the village and even in the distant parsonage that cry raised the sleepers from their beds It struck cold to our hearts and I stood gazing at Holmes and he at me until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose

What can it mean? I gasped

It means that it is all over Holmes answered And perhaps after all it is for the best Take your pistol and we will enter Dr Roylotts room

With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within Then he turned the handle and entered I at his heels with the cocked pistol in my hand

It was a singular sight which met our eyes On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe the door of which was ajar Beside this table on the wooden chair sat Dr Grimesby Roylott clad in a long grey dressing-gown his bare ankles protruding beneath and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band with brownish speckles which seemed to be bound tightly round his head As we entered he made neither sound nor motion

The band! the speckled band! whispered Holmes

I took a step forward In an instant his strange headgear began to move and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent

It is a swamp adder! cried Holmes; the deadliest snake in India He has died within ten seconds of being bitten Violence does in truth recoil upon the violent and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another Let us thrust this creature back into its den and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened

As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead mans lap and throwing the noose round the reptiles neck he drew it from its horrid perch and carrying it at arms length threw it into the iron safe which he closed upon it

Such are the true facts of the death of Dr Grimesby Roylott of Stoke Moran It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day

I had said he come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows my dear Watson how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data The presence of the gipsies and the use of the word band which was used by the poor girl no doubt to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent I can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position when however it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door My attention was speedily drawn as I have already remarked to you to this ventilator and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed The discovery that this was a dummy and that the bed was clamped to the floor instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from India I felt that I was probably on the right track The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also from his point of view be an advantage It would be a sharp-eyed coroner indeed who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work Then I thought of the whistle Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim He had trained it probably by the use of the milk which we saw to return to him when summoned He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best with the certainty that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed It might or might not bite the occupant perhaps she might escape every night for a week but sooner or later she must fall a victim

I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator The sight of the safe the saucer of milk and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant Having once made up my mind you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof I heard the creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also and I instantly lit the light and attacked it

With the result of driving it through the ventilator

And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper so that it flew upon the first person it saw In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr Grimesby Roylotts death and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my conscience

IX  THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEERS THUMB


Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend Mr Sherlock Holmes for solution during the years of our intimacy there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice--that of Mr Hatherleys thumb and that of Colonel Warburtons madness Of these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results The story has I believe been told more than once in the newspapers but like all such narratives its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect

It was in the summer of 89 not long after my marriage that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise I had returned to civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms although I continually visited him and occasionally even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit us My practice had steadily increased and as I happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington Station I got a few patients from among the officials One of these whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence

One morning at a little before seven oclock I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room I dressed hurriedly for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial and hastened downstairs As I descended my old ally the guard came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him

Ive got him here he whispered jerking his thumb over his shoulder; hes all right

What is it then? I asked for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room

Its a new patient he whispered I thought Id bring him round myself; then he couldnt slip away There he is all safe and sound I must go now Doctor; I have my dooties just the same as you And off he went this trusty tout without even giving me time to thank him

I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books Round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped which was mottled all over with bloodstains He was young not more than five-and-twenty I should say with a strong masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation which it took all his strength of mind to control

I am sorry to knock you up so early Doctor said he but I have had a very serious accident during the night I came in by train this morning and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here I gave the maid a card but I see that she has left it upon the side-table

I took it up and glanced at it Mr Victor Hatherley hydraulic engineer 16A Victoria Street (3rd floor) That was the name style and abode of my morning visitor I regret that I have kept you waiting said I sitting down in my library-chair You are fresh from a night journey I understand which is in itself a monotonous occupation

Oh my night could not be called monotonous said he and laughed He laughed very heartily with a high ringing note leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides All my medical instincts rose up against that laugh

Stop it! I cried; pull yourself together! and I poured out some water from a caraffe

It was useless however He was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone Presently he came to himself once more very weary and pale-looking

I have been making a fool of myself he gasped

Not at all Drink this I dashed some brandy into the water and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks

Thats better! said he And now Doctor perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb or rather to the place where my thumb used to be

He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red spongy surface where the thumb should have been It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots

Good heavens! I cried this is a terrible injury It must have bled considerably

Yes it did I fainted when it was done and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time When I came to I found that it was still bleeding so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig

Excellent! You should have been a surgeon

It is a question of hydraulics you see and came within my own province

This has been done said I examining the wound by a very heavy and sharp instrument

A thing like a cleaver said he

An accident I presume?

By no means

What! a murderous attack?

Very murderous indeed

You horrify me

I sponged the wound cleaned it dressed it and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages He lay back without wincing though he bit his lip from time to time

How is that? I asked when I had finished

Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage I feel a new man I was very weak but I have had a good deal to go through

Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter It is evidently trying to your nerves

Oh no not now I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but between ourselves if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine I should be surprised if they believed my statement for it is a very extraordinary one and I have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up; and even if they believe me the clues which I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done

Ha! cried I if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved I should strongly recommend you to come to my friend Mr Sherlock Holmes before you go to the official police

Oh I have heard of that fellow answered my visitor and I should be very glad if he would take the matter up though of course I must use the official police as well Would you give me an introduction to him?

Ill do better Ill take you round to him myself

I should be immensely obliged to you

Well call a cab and go together We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him Do you feel equal to it?

Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story

Then my servant will call a cab and I shall be with you in an instant I rushed upstairs explained the matter shortly to my wife and in five minutes was inside a hansom driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street

Sherlock Holmes was as I expected lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown reading the agony column of The Times and smoking his before-breakfast pipe which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece He received us in his quietly genial fashion ordered fresh rashers and eggs and joined us in a hearty meal When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa placed a pillow beneath his head and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach

It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one Mr Hatherley said he Pray lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home Tell us what you can but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant

Thank you said my patient but I have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me and I think that your breakfast has completed the cure I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible so I shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences

Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager nature while I sat opposite to him and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us

You must know said he that I am an orphan and a bachelor residing alone in lodgings in London By profession I am a hydraulic engineer and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson the well-known firm of Greenwich Two years ago having served my time and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor fathers death I determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in Victoria Street

I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience To me it has been exceptionally so During two years I have had three consultations and one small job and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me My gross takings amount to $27 10s Every day from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon I waited in my little den until at last my heart began to sink and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at all

Yesterday however just as I was thinking of leaving the office my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business He brought up a card too with the name of Colonel Lysander Stark engraved upon it Close at his heels came the colonel himself a man rather over the middle size but of an exceeding thinness I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones Yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit and due to no disease for his eye was bright his step brisk and his bearing assured He was plainly but neatly dressed and his age I should judge would be nearer forty than thirty

 Mr Hatherley? said he with something of a German accent You have been recommended to me Mr Hatherley as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret

I bowed feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?

 Well perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London

 That is quite correct I answered; but you will excuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional qualifications I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?

 Undoubtedly so But you will find that all I say is really to the point I have a professional commission for you but absolute secrecy is quite essential--absolute secrecy you understand and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family

 If I promise to keep a secret said I you may absolutely depend upon my doing so

He looked very hard at me as I spoke and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye

 Do you promise then? said he at last

 Yes I promise

 Absolute and complete silence before during and after? No reference to the matter at all either in word or writing?

 I have already given you my word

 Very good He suddenly sprang up and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door The passage outside was empty

 Thats all right said he coming back I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their masters affairs Now we can talk in safety He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look

A feeling of repulsion and of something akin to fear had begun to rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience

 I beg that you will state your business sir said I; my time is of value Heaven forgive me for that last sentence but the words came to my lips

 How would fifty guineas for a nights work suit you? he asked

 Most admirably

 I say a nights work but an hours would be nearer the mark I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves What do you think of such a commission as that?

 The work appears to be light and the pay munificent

 Precisely so We shall want you to come to-night by the last train

 Where to?

 To Eyford in Berkshire It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire and within seven miles of Reading There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15

 Very good

 I shall come down in a carriage to meet you

 There is a drive then?

 Yes our little place is quite out in the country It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station

 Then we can hardly get there before midnight I suppose there would be no chance of a train back I should be compelled to stop the night

 Yes we could easily give you a shake-down

 That is very awkward Could I not come at some more convenient hour?

 We have judged it best that you should come late It is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you a young and unknown man a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession Still of course if you would like to draw out of the business there is plenty of time to do so

I thought of the fifty guineas and of how very useful they would be to me Not at all said I I shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes I should like however to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do

 Quite so It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity I have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?

 Entirely

 Then the matter stands thus You are probably aware that fullers-earth is a valuable product and that it is only found in one or two places in England?

 I have heard so

 Some little time ago I bought a small place--a very small place--within ten miles of Reading I was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fullers-earth in one of my fields On examining it however I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left--both of them however in the grounds of my neighbours These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine Naturally it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this I took a few of my friends into the secret however and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields This we have now been doing for some time and in order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press This press as I have already explained has got out of order and we wish your advice upon the subject We guard our secret very jealously however and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house it would soon rouse inquiry and then if the facts came out it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford to-night I hope that I make it all plain?

 I quite follow you said I The only point which I could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fullers-earth which as I understand is dug out like gravel from a pit

 Ah! said he carelessly we have our own process We compress the earth into bricks so as to remove them without revealing what they are But that is a mere detail I have taken you fully into my confidence now Mr Hatherley and I have shown you how I trust you He rose as he spoke I shall expect you then at Eyford at 11:15

 I shall certainly be there

 And not a word to a soul He looked at me with a last long questioning gaze and then pressing my hand in a cold dank grasp he hurried from the room

Well when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much astonished as you may both think at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me On the one hand of course I was glad for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price upon my own services and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones On the other hand the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me and I could not think that his explanation of the fullers-earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell anyone of my errand However I threw all fears to the winds ate a hearty supper drove to Paddington and started off having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue

At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station However I was in time for the last train to Eyford and I reached the little dim-lit station after eleven oclock I was the only passenger who got out there and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern As I passed out through the wicket gate however I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage the door of which was standing open He drew up the windows on either side tapped on the wood-work and away we went as fast as the horse could go

One horse? interjected Holmes

Yes only one

Did you observe the colour?

Yes I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage It was a chestnut

Tired-looking or fresh?

Oh fresh and glossy

Thank you I am sorry to have interrupted you Pray continue your most interesting statement

Away we went then and we drove for at least an hour Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles but I should think from the rate that we seemed to go and from the time that we took that it must have been nearer twelve He sat at my side in silence all the time and I was aware more than once when I glanced in his direction that he was looking at me with great intensity The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world for we lurched and jolted terribly I tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were but they were made of frosted glass and I could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey but the colonel answered only in monosyllables and the conversation soon flagged At last however the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive and the carriage came to a stand Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out and as I followed after him pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us We stepped as it were right out of the carriage and into the hall so that I failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away

It was pitch dark inside the house and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage and a long golden bar of light shot out in our direction It grew broader and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand which she held above her head pushing her face forward and peering at us I could see that she was pretty and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand Colonel Stark went up to her whispered something in her ear and then pushing her back into the room from whence she had come he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand

 Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes said he throwing open another door It was a quiet little plainly furnished room with a round table in the centre on which several German books were scattered Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door I shall not keep you waiting an instant said he and vanished into the darkness

I glanced at the books upon the table and in spite of my ignorance of German I could see that two of them were treatises on science the others being volumes of poetry Then I walked across to the window hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side but an oak shutter heavily barred was folded across it It was a wonderfully silent house There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage but otherwise everything was deadly still A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me Who were these German people and what were they doing living in this strange out-of-the-way place? And where was the place? I was ten miles or so from Eyford that was all I knew but whether north south east or west I had no idea For that matter Reading and possibly other large towns were within that radius so the place might not be so secluded after all Yet it was quite certain from the absolute stillness that we were in the country I paced up and down the room humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee

Suddenly without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness the door of my room swung slowly open The woman was standing in the aperture the darkness of the hall behind her the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear and the sight sent a chill to my own heart She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me her eyes glancing back like those of a frightened horse into the gloom behind her

 I would go said she trying hard as it seemed to me to speak calmly; I would go I should not stay here There is no good for you to do

 But madam said I I have not yet done what I came for I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine

 It is not worth your while to wait she went on You can pass through the door; no one hinders And then seeing that I smiled and shook my head she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward with her hands wrung together For the love of Heaven! she whispered get away from here before it is too late!

But I am somewhat headstrong by nature and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way I thought of my fifty-guinea fee of my wearisome journey and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me Was it all to go for nothing? Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission and without the payment which was my due? This woman might for all I knew be a monomaniac With a stout bearing therefore though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess I still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where I was She was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs She listened for an instant threw up her hands with a despairing gesture and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come

The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin who was introduced to me as Mr Ferguson

 This is my secretary and manager said the colonel By the way I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now I fear that you have felt the draught

 On the contrary said I I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little close

He shot one of his suspicious looks at me Perhaps we had better proceed to business then said he Mr Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine

 I had better put my hat on I suppose

 Oh no it is in the house

 What you dig fullers-earth in the house?

 No no This is only where we compress it But never mind that All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it

We went upstairs together the colonel first with the lamp the fat manager and I behind him It was a labyrinth of an old house with corridors passages narrow winding staircases and little low doors the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor while the plaster was peeling off the walls and the damp was breaking through in green unhealthy blotches I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible but I had not forgotten the warnings of the lady even though I disregarded them and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least a fellow-countryman

Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door which he unlocked Within was a small square room in which the three of us could hardly get at one time Ferguson remained outside and the colonel ushered me in

 We are now said he actually within the hydraulic press and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor There are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you The machine goes readily enough but there is some stiffness in the working of it and it has lost a little of its force Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right

I took the lamp from him and I examined the machine very thoroughly It was indeed a gigantic one and capable of exercising enormous pressure When I passed outside however and pressed down the levers which controlled it I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage which allowed a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders An examination showed that one of the india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked This was clearly the cause of the loss of power and I pointed it out to my companions who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right When I had made it clear to them I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fullers-earth was the merest fabrication for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose The walls were of wood but the floor consisted of a large iron trough and when I came to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me

 What are you doing there? he asked

I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me I was admiring your fullers-earth said I; I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used

The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my speech His face set hard and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes

 Very well said he you shall know all about the machine He took a step backward slammed the little door and turned the key in the lock I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle but it was quite secure and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves Hullo! I yelled Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!

And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder He had set the engine at work The lamp still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me slowly jerkily but as none knew better than myself with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp I threw myself screaming against the door and dragged with my nails at the lock I implored the colonel to let me out but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard rough surface Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap Easier the other way perhaps; and yet had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me? Already I was unable to stand erect when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart

I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron the walls were of wood As I gave a last hurried glance around I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death The next instant I threw myself through and lay half-fainting upon the other side The panel had closed again behind me but the crash of the lamp and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal told me how narrow had been my escape

I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand while she held a candle in her right It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected

 Come! come! she cried breathlessly They will be here in a moment They will see that you are not there Oh do not waste the so-precious time but come!

This time at least I did not scorn her advice I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair The latter led to another broad passage and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices one answering the other from the floor on which we were and from the one beneath My guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wits end Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom through the window of which the moon was shining brightly

 It is your only chance said she It is high but it may be that you can jump it

As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butchers cleaver in the other I rushed across the bedroom flung open the window and looked out How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight and it could not be more than thirty feet down I clambered out upon the sill but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me If she were ill-used then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance The thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door pushing his way past her; but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back

 Fritz! Fritz! she cried in English remember your promise after the last time You said it should not be again He will be silent! Oh he will be silent!

 You are mad Elise! he shouted struggling to break away from her You will be the ruin of us He has seen too much Let me pass I say! He dashed her to one side and rushing to the window cut at me with his heavy weapon I had let myself go and was hanging by the hands to the sill when his blow fell I was conscious of a dull pain my grip loosened and I fell into the garden below

I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run for I understood that I was far from being out of danger yet Suddenly however as I ran a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me I glanced down at my hand which was throbbing painfully and then for the first time saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears and next moment I fell in a dead faint among the rose-bushes

How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell It must have been a very long time for the moon had sunk and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself My clothes were all sodden with dew and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my nights adventure and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers But to my astonishment when I came to look round me neither house nor garden were to be seen I had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad and just a little lower down was a long building which proved upon my approaching it to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream

Half dazed I went into the station and asked about the morning train There would be one to Reading in less than an hour The same porter was on duty I found as had been there when I arrived I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark The name was strange to him Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me? No he had not Was there a police-station anywhere near? There was one about three miles off

It was too far for me to go weak and ill as I was I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police It was a little past six when I arrived so I went first to have my wound dressed and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise

We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings

Here is an advertisement which will interest you said he It appeared in all the papers about a year ago Listen to this: Lost on the 9th inst Mr Jeremiah Hayling aged twenty-six a hydraulic engineer Left his lodgings at ten oclock at night and has not been heard of since Was dressed in etc etc Ha! That represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled I fancy

Good heavens! cried my patient Then that explains what the girl said

Undoubtedly It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game like those out-and-out pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship Well every moment now is precious so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford

Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village There were Sherlock Holmes the hydraulic engineer Inspector Bradstreet of Scotland Yard a plain-clothes man and myself Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre

There you are said he That circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village The place we want must be somewhere near that line You said ten miles I think sir

It was an hours good drive

And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?

They must have done so I have a confused memory too of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere

What I cannot understand said I is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden Perhaps the villain was softened by the womans entreaties

I hardly think that likely I never saw a more inexorable face in my life

Oh we shall soon clear up all that said Bradstreet Well I have drawn my circle and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found

I think I could lay my finger on it said Holmes quietly

Really now! cried the inspector you have formed your opinion! Come now we shall see who agrees with you I say it is south for the country is more deserted there

And I say east said my patient

I am for west remarked the plain-clothes man There are several quiet little villages up there

And I am for north said I because there are no hills there and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any

Come cried the inspector laughing; its a very pretty diversity of opinion We have boxed the compass among us Who do you give your casting vote to?

You are all wrong

But we cant all be

Oh yes you can This is my point He placed his finger in the centre of the circle This is where we shall find them

But the twelve-mile drive? gasped Hatherley

Six out and six back Nothing simpler You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?

Indeed it is a likely ruse enough observed Bradstreet thoughtfully Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang

None at all said Holmes They are coiners on a large scale and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver

We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work said the inspector They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand We even traced them as far as Reading but could get no farther for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands But now thanks to this lucky chance I think that we have got them right enough

But the inspector was mistaken for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape

A house on fire? asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way

Yes sir! said the station-master

When did it break out?

I hear that it was during the night sir but it has got worse and the whole place is in a blaze

Whose house is it?

Dr Bechers

Tell me broke in the engineer is Dr Becher a German very thin with a long sharp nose?

The station-master laughed heartily No sir Dr Becher is an Englishman and there isnt a man in the parish who has a better-lined waistcoat But he has a gentleman staying with him a patient as I understand who is a foreigner and he looks as if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm

The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire The road topped a low hill and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us spouting fire at every chink and window while in the garden in front three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under

Thats it! cried Hatherley in intense excitement There is the gravel-drive and there are the rose-bushes where I lay That second window is the one that I jumped from

Well at least said Holmes you have had your revenge upon them There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which when it was crushed in the press set fire to the wooden walls though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now

And Holmes fears came to be realised for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman the sinister German or the morose Englishman Early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared and even Holmes ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts

The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor About sunset however their efforts were at last successful and they subdued the flames but not before the roof had fallen in and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that save some twisted cylinders and iron piping not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house but no coins were to be found which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to

How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould which told us a very plain tale He had evidently been carried down by two persons one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones On the whole it was most probable that the silent Englishman being less bold or less murderous than his companion had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger

Well said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to London it has been a pretty business for me! I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee and what have I gained?

Experience said Holmes laughing Indirectly it may be of value you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence

X  THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR


The Lord St Simon marriage and its curious termination have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves Fresh scandals have eclipsed it and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama As I have reason to believe however that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode

It was a few weeks before my own marriage during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him I had remained indoors all day for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain with high autumnal winds and the Jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last saturated with the news of the day I tossed them all aside and lay listless watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friends noble correspondent could be

Here is a very fashionable epistle I remarked as he entered Your morning letters if I remember right were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter

Yes my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety he answered smiling and the humbler are usually the more interesting This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie

He broke the seal and glanced over the contents

Oh come it may prove to be something of interest after all

Not social then?

No distinctly professional

And from a noble client?

One of the highest in England

My dear fellow I congratulate you

I assure you Watson without affectation that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case It is just possible however that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation You have been reading the papers diligently of late have you not?

It looks like it said I ruefully pointing to a huge bundle in the corner I have had nothing else to do

It is fortunate for you will perhaps be able to post me up I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column The latter is always instructive But if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about Lord St Simon and his wedding?

Oh yes with the deepest interest

That is well The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St Simon I will read it to you and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter This is what he says:

 MY DEAR MR SHERLOCK HOLMES:--Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion I have determined therefore to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding Mr Lestrade of Scotland Yard is acting already in the matter but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co-operation and that he even thinks that it might be of some assistance I will call at four oclock in the afternoon and should you have any other engagement at that time I hope that you will postpone it as this matter is of paramount importance Yours faithfully


 ST SIMON

It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions written with a quill pen and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger remarked Holmes as he folded up the epistle

He says four oclock It is three now He will be here in an hour

Then I have just time with your assistance to get clear upon the subject Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time while I take a glance as to who our client is He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece Here he is said he sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee  Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St Simon second son of the Duke of Balmoral Hum! Arms: Azure three caltrops in chief over a fess sable Born in 1846 Hes forty-one years of age which is mature for marriage Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration The Duke his father was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent and Tudor on the distaff side Ha! Well there is nothing very instructive in all this I think that I must turn to you Watson for something more solid

I have very little difficulty in finding what I want said I for the facts are quite recent and the matter struck me as remarkable I feared to refer them to you however as I knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters

Oh you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van That is quite cleared up now--though indeed it was obvious from the first Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections

Here is the first notice which I can find It is in the personal column of the Morning Post and dates as you see some weeks back: A marriage has been arranged it says and will if rumour is correct very shortly take place between Lord Robert St Simon second son of the Duke of Balmoral and Miss Hatty Doran the only daughter of Aloysius Doran Esq of San Francisco Cal USA That is all

Terse and to the point remarked Holmes stretching his long thin legs towards the fire

There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week Ah here it is: There will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market for the present free-trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home product One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic An important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders Lord St Simon who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little gods arrows has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran the fascinating daughter of a California millionaire Miss Doran whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities is an only child and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures with expectancies for the future As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years and as Lord St Simon has no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor it is obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a British peeress 

Anything else? asked Holmes yawning

Oh yes; plenty Then there is another note in the Morning Post to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one that it would be at St Georges Hanover Square that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited and that the party would return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr Aloysius Doran Two days later--that is on Wednesday last--there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwaters place near Petersfield Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride

Before the what? asked Holmes with a start

The vanishing of the lady

When did she vanish then?

At the wedding breakfast

Indeed This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite dramatic in fact

Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common

They often vanish before the ceremony and occasionally during the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this Pray let me have the details

I warn you that they are very incomplete

Perhaps we may make them less so

Such as they are they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday which I will read to you It is headed Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding:

 The family of Lord Robert St Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding The ceremony as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday occurred on the previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about In spite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation

 The ceremony which was performed at St Georges Hanover Square was a very quiet one no one being present save the father of the bride Mr Aloysius Doran the Duchess of Balmoral Lord Backwater Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St Simon (the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom) and Lady Alicia Whittington The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr Aloysius Doran at Lancaster Gate where breakfast had been prepared It appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman whose name has not been ascertained who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St Simon It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman The bride who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption had sat down to breakfast with the rest when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room Her prolonged absence having caused some comment her father followed her but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant caught up an ulster and bonnet and hurried down to the passage One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled but had refused to credit that it was his mistress believing her to be with the company On ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared Mr Aloysius Doran in conjunction with the bridegroom instantly put themselves in communication with the police and very energetic inquiries are being made which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business Up to a late hour last night however nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady There are rumours of foul play in the matter and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the original disturbance in the belief that from jealousy or some other motive she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride 

And is that all?

Only one little item in another of the morning papers but it is a suggestive one

And it is--

That Miss Flora Millar the lady who had caused the disturbance has actually been arrested It appears that she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro and that she has known the bridegroom for some years There are no further particulars and the whole case is in your hands now--so far as it has been set forth in the public press

And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be I would not have missed it for worlds But there is a ring at the bell Watson and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four I have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client Do not dream of going Watson for I very much prefer having a witness if only as a check to my own memory

Lord Robert St Simon announced our page-boy throwing open the door A gentleman entered with a pleasant cultured face high-nosed and pale with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth and with the steady well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed His manner was brisk and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked His hair too as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top As to his dress it was careful to the verge of foppishness with high collar black frock-coat white waistcoat yellow gloves patent-leather shoes and light-coloured gaiters He advanced slowly into the room turning his head from left to right and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses

Good-day Lord St Simon said Holmes rising and bowing Pray take the basket-chair This is my friend and colleague Dr Watson Draw up a little to the fire and we will talk this matter over

A most painful matter to me as you can most readily imagine Mr Holmes I have been cut to the quick I understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort sir though I presume that they were hardly from the same class of society

No I am descending

I beg pardon

My last client of the sort was a king

Oh really! I had no idea And which king?

The King of Scandinavia

What! Had he lost his wife?

You can understand said Holmes suavely that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours

Of course! Very right! very right! Im sure I beg pardon As to my own case I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion

Thank you I have already learned all that is in the public prints nothing more I presume that I may take it as correct--this article for example as to the disappearance of the bride

Lord St Simon glanced over it Yes it is correct as far as it goes

But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you

Pray do so

When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?

In San Francisco a year ago

You were travelling in the States?

Yes

Did you become engaged then?

No

But you were on a friendly footing?

I was amused by her society and she could see that I was amused

Her father is very rich?

He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope

And how did he make his money?

In mining He had nothing a few years ago Then he struck gold invested it and came up by leaps and bounds

Now what is your own impression as to the young ladys--your wifes character?

The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire You see Mr Holmes said he my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man During that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains so that her education has come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster She is what we call in England a tomboy with a strong nature wild and free unfettered by any sort of traditions She is impetuous--volcanic I was about to say She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions On the other hand I would not have given her the name which I have the honour to bear--he gave a little stately cough--had I not thought her to be at bottom a noble woman I believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her

Have you her photograph?

I brought this with me He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman It was not a photograph but an ivory miniature and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair the large dark eyes and the exquisite mouth Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St Simon

The young lady came to London then and you renewed your acquaintance?

Yes her father brought her over for this last London season I met her several times became engaged to her and have now married her

She brought I understand a considerable dowry?

A fair dowry Not more than is usual in my family

And this of course remains to you since the marriage is a fait accompli?

I really have made no inquiries on the subject

Very naturally not Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?

Yes

Was she in good spirits?

Never better She kept talking of what we should do in our future lives

Indeed! That is very interesting And on the morning of the wedding?

She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony

And did you observe any change in her then?

Well to tell the truth I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp The incident however was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case

Pray let us have it for all that

Oh it is childish She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry She was passing the front pew at the time and it fell over into the pew There was a moments delay but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall Yet when I spoke to her of the matter she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage on our way home she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause

Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman in the pew Some of the general public were present then?

Oh yes It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open

This gentleman was not one of your wifes friends?

No no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy but he was quite a common-looking person I hardly noticed his appearance But really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point

Lady St Simon then returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it What did she do on re-entering her fathers house?

I saw her in conversation with her maid

And who is her maid?

Alice is her name She is an American and came from California with her

A confidential servant?

A little too much so It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties Still of course in America they look upon these things in a different way

How long did she speak to this Alice?

Oh a few minutes I had something else to think of

You did not overhear what they said?

Lady St Simon said something about jumping a claim She was accustomed to use slang of the kind I have no idea what she meant

American slang is very expressive sometimes And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?

She walked into the breakfast-room

On your arm?

No alone She was very independent in little matters like that Then after we had sat down for ten minutes or so she rose hurriedly muttered some words of apology and left the room She never came back

But this maid Alice as I understand deposes that she went to her room covered her brides dress with a long ulster put on a bonnet and went out

Quite so And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in company with Flora Millar a woman who is now in custody and who had already made a disturbance at Mr Dorans house that morning

Ah yes I should like a few particulars as to this young lady and your relations to her

Lord St Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows We have been on a friendly footing for some years--I may say on a very friendly footing She used to be at the Allegro I have not treated her ungenerously and she had no just cause of complaint against me but you know what women are Mr Holmes Flora was a dear little thing but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me She wrote me dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married and to tell the truth the reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church She came to Mr Dorans door just after we returned and she endeavoured to push her way in uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife and even threatening her but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort and I had two police fellows there in private clothes who soon pushed her out again She was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a row

Did your wife hear all this?

No thank goodness she did not

And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?

Yes That is what Mr Lestrade of Scotland Yard looks upon as so serious It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her

Well it is a possible supposition

You think so too?

I did not say a probable one But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?

I do not think Flora would hurt a fly

Still jealousy is a strange transformer of characters Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?

Well really I came to seek a theory not to propound one I have given you all the facts Since you ask me however I may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife

In short that she had become suddenly deranged?

Well really when I consider that she has turned her back--I will not say upon me but upon so much that many have aspired to without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion

Well certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis said Holmes smiling And now Lord St Simon I think that I have nearly all my data May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?

We could see the other side of the road and the Park

Quite so Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer I shall communicate with you

Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem said our client rising

I have solved it

Eh? What was that?

I say that I have solved it

Where then is my wife?

That is a detail which I shall speedily supply

Lord St Simon shook his head I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine he remarked and bowing in a stately old-fashioned manner he departed

It is very good of Lord St Simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own said Sherlock Holmes laughing I think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning I had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room

My dear Holmes!

I have notes of several similar cases though none as I remarked before which were quite as prompt My whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing as when you find a trout in the milk to quote Thoreaus example

But I have heard all that you have heard

Without however the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me so well There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War It is one of these cases--but hullo here is Lestrade! Good-afternoon Lestrade! You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard and there are cigars in the box

The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him

Whats up then? asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye You look dissatisfied

And I feel dissatisfied It is this infernal St Simon marriage case I can make neither head nor tail of the business

Really! You surprise me

Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slip through my fingers I have been at work upon it all day

And very wet it seems to have made you said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket

Yes I have been dragging the Serpentine

In heavens name what for?

In search of the body of Lady St Simon

Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily

Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain? he asked

Why? What do you mean?

Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other

Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion I suppose you know all about it he snarled

Well I have only just heard the facts but my mind is made up

Oh indeed! Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?

I think it very unlikely

Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it? He opened his bag as he spoke and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk a pair of white satin shoes and a brides wreath and veil all discoloured and soaked in water There said he putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile There is a little nut for you to crack Master Holmes

Oh indeed! said my friend blowing blue rings into the air You dragged them from the Serpentine?

No They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper They have been identified as her clothes and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off

By the same brilliant reasoning every mans body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe And pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?

At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance

I am afraid that you will find it difficult

Are you indeed now? cried Lestrade with some bitterness I am afraid Holmes that you are not very practical with your deductions and your inferences You have made two blunders in as many minutes This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar

And how?

In the dress is a pocket In the pocket is a card-case In the card-case is a note And here is the very note He slapped it down upon the table in front of him Listen to this: You will see me when all is ready Come at once F H M Now my theory all along has been that Lady St Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar and that she with confederates no doubt was responsible for her disappearance Here signed with her initials is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach

Very good Lestrade said Holmes laughing You really are very fine indeed Let me see it He took up the paper in a listless way but his attention instantly became riveted and he gave a little cry of satisfaction This is indeed important said he

Ha! you find it so?

Extremely so I congratulate you warmly

Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look Why he shrieked youre looking at the wrong side!

On the contrary this is the right side

The right side? Youre mad! Here is the note written in pencil over here

And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill which interests me deeply

Theres nothing in it I looked at it before said Lestrade  Oct 4th rooms 8s breakfast 2s 6d cocktail 1s lunch 2s 6d glass sherry 8d I see nothing in that

Very likely not It is most important all the same As to the note it is important also or at least the initials are so I congratulate you again

Ive wasted time enough said Lestrade rising I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories Good-day Mr Holmes and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first He gathered up the garments thrust them into the bag and made for the door

Just one hint to you Lestrade drawled Holmes before his rival vanished; I will tell you the true solution of the matter Lady St Simon is a myth There is not and there never has been any such person

Lestrade looked sadly at my companion Then he turned to me tapped his forehead three times shook his head solemnly and hurried away

He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work he remarked so I think Watson that I must leave you to your papers for a little

It was after five oclock when Sherlock Holmes left me but I had no time to be lonely for within an hour there arrived a confectioners man with a very large flat box This he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him and presently to my very great astonishment a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble lodging-house mahogany There were a couple of brace of cold woodcock a pheasant a pate de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles Having laid out all these luxuries my two visitors vanished away like the genii of the Arabian Nights with no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address

Just before nine oclock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room His features were gravely set but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions

They have laid the supper then he said rubbing his hands

You seem to expect company They have laid for five

Yes I fancy we may have some company dropping in said he I am surprised that Lord St Simon has not already arrived Ha! I fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs

It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features

My messenger reached you then? asked Holmes

Yes and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure Have you good authority for what you say?

The best possible

Lord St Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead

What will the Duke say he murmured when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?

It is the purest accident I cannot allow that there is any humiliation

Ah you look on these things from another standpoint

I fail to see that anyone is to blame I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted Having no mother she had no one to advise her at such a crisis

It was a slight sir a public slight said Lord St Simon tapping his fingers upon the table

You must make allowance for this poor girl placed in so unprecedented a position

I will make no allowance I am very angry indeed and I have been shamefully used

I think that I heard a ring said Holmes Yes there are steps on the landing If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter Lord St Simon I have brought an advocate here who may be more successful He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman Lord St Simon said he allow me to introduce you to Mr and Mrs Francis Hay Moulton The lady I think you have already met

At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock-coat a picture of offended dignity The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him but he still refused to raise his eyes It was as well for his resolution perhaps for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist

Youre angry Robert said she Well I guess you have every cause to be

Pray make no apology to me said Lord St Simon bitterly

Oh yes I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didnt know what I was doing or saying I only wonder I didnt fall down and do a faint right there before the altar

Perhaps Mrs Moulton you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?

If I may give an opinion remarked the strange gentleman weve had just a little too much secrecy over this business already For my part I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it He was a small wiry sunburnt man clean-shaven with a sharp face and alert manner

Then Ill tell our story right away said the lady Frank here and I met in 84 in McQuires camp near the Rockies where Pa was working a claim We were engaged to each other Frank and I; but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing The richer Pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last Pa wouldnt hear of our engagement lasting any longer and he took me away to Frisco Frank wouldnt throw up his hand though; so he followed me there and he saw me without Pa knowing anything about it It would only have made him mad to know so we just fixed it all up for ourselves Frank said that he would go and make his pile too and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived Why shouldnt we be married right away then said he and then I will feel sure of you; and I wont claim to be your husband until I come back? Well we talked it over and he had fixed it all up so nicely with a clergyman all ready in waiting that we just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek his fortune and I went back to Pa

The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana and then he went prospecting in Arizona and then I heard of him from New Mexico After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners camp had been attacked by Apache Indians and there was my Franks name among the killed I fainted dead away and I was very sick for months after Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in Frisco Not a word of news came for a year and more so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead Then Lord St Simon came to Frisco and we came to London and a marriage was arranged and Pa was very pleased but I felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank

Still if I had married Lord St Simon of course Id have done my duty by him We cant command our love but we can our actions I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be But you may imagine what I felt when just as I came to the altar rails I glanced back and saw Frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew I thought it was his ghost at first; but when I looked again there he was still with a kind of question in his eyes as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to see him I wonder I didnt drop I know that everything was turning round and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear I didnt know what to do Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church? I glanced at him again and he seemed to know what I was thinking for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper and I knew that he was writing me a note As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him and he slipped the note into my hand when he returned me the flowers It was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him and I determined to do just whatever he might direct

When I got back I told my maid who had known him in California and had always been his friend I ordered her to say nothing but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready I know I ought to have spoken to Lord St Simon but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people I just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards I hadnt been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park I slipped out put on my things and followed him Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St Simon to me--seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also--but I managed to get away from her and soon overtook Frank We got into a cab together and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches had escaped came on to Frisco found that I had given him up for dead and had gone to England followed me there and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding

I saw it in a paper explained the American It gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived

Then we had a talk as to what we should do and Frank was all for openness but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I should like to vanish away and never see any of them again--just sending a line to Pa perhaps to show him that I was alive It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back So Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a bundle of them so that I should not be traced and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow only that this good gentleman Mr Holmes came round to us this evening though how he found us is more than I can think and he showed us very clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St Simon alone and so we came right away round to his rooms at once Now Robert you have heard it all and I am very sorry if I have given you pain and I hope that you do not think very meanly of me

Lord St Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative

Excuse me he said but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner

Then you wont forgive me? You wont shake hands before I go?

Oh certainly if it would give you any pleasure He put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him

I had hoped suggested Holmes that you would have joined us in a friendly supper

I think that there you ask a little too much responded his Lordship I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments but I can hardly be expected to make merry over them I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a very good-night He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room

Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company said Sherlock Holmes It is always a joy to meet an American Mr Moulton for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes

The case has been an interesting one remarked Holmes when our visitors had left us because it serves to show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost inexplicable Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady and nothing stranger than the result when viewed for instance by Mr Lestrade of Scotland Yard

You were not yourself at fault at all then?

From the first two facts were very obvious to me the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home Obviously something had occurred during the morning then to cause her to change her mind What could that something be? She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out for she had been in the company of the bridegroom Had she seen someone then? If she had it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely You see we have already arrived by a process of exclusion at the idea that she might have seen an American Then who could this American be and why should he possess so much influence over her? It might be a lover; it might be a husband Her young womanhood had I knew been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St Simons narrative When he told us of a man in a pew of the change in the brides manner of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet of her resort to her confidential maid and of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping--which in miners parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to--the whole situation became absolutely clear She had gone off with a man and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband--the chances being in favour of the latter

And how in the world did you find them?

It might have been difficult but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know The initials were of course of the highest importance but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels

How did you deduce the select?

By the select prices Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels There are not many in London which charge at that rate In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H Moulton an American gentleman had left only the day before and on looking over the entries against him I came upon the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home I ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to Lord St Simon in particular I invited them to meet him here and as you see I made him keep the appointment

But with no very good result I remarked His conduct was certainly not very gracious

Ah Watson said Holmes smiling perhaps you would not be very gracious either if after all the trouble of wooing and wedding you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune I think that we may judge Lord St Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position Draw your chair up and hand me my violin for the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings

XI  THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET


Holmes said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street here is a madman coming along It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone

My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown looking over my shoulder It was a bright crisp February morning and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground shimmering brightly in the wintry sun Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the foot-paths it still lay as white as when it fell The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped but was still dangerously slippery so that there were fewer passengers than usual Indeed from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention

He was a man of about fifty tall portly and imposing with a massive strongly marked face and a commanding figure He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style in black frock-coat shining hat neat brown gaiters and well-cut pearl-grey trousers Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features for he was running hard with occasional little springs such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs As he ran he jerked his hands up and down waggled his head and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions

What on earth can be the matter with him? I asked He is looking up at the numbers of the houses

I believe that he is coming here said Holmes rubbing his hands

Here?

Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally I think that I recognise the symptoms Ha! did I not tell you? As he spoke the man puffing and blowing rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging

A few moments later he was in our room still puffing still gesticulating but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity For a while he could not get his words out but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason Then suddenly springing to his feet he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and sitting beside him patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ

You have come to me to tell your story have you not? said he You are fatigued with your haste Pray wait until you have recovered yourself and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me

The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest fighting against his emotion Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow set his lips tight and turned his face towards us

No doubt you think me mad? said he

I see that you have had some great trouble responded Holmes

God knows I have!--a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason so sudden and so terrible is it Public disgrace I might have faced although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming together and in so frightful a form have been enough to shake my very soul Besides it is not I alone The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair

Pray compose yourself sir said Holmes and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you

My name answered our visitor is probably familiar to your ears I am Alexander Holder of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson of Threadneedle Street

The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London What could have happened then to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass? We waited all curiosity until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story

I feel that time is of value said he; that is why I hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your co-operation I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot for the cabs go slowly through this snow That is why I was so out of breath for I am a man who takes very little exercise I feel better now and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can

It is of course well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans where the security is unimpeachable We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures libraries or plate

Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks I started when I saw the name for it was that of none other than--well perhaps even to you I had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth--one of the highest noblest most exalted names in England I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted when he entered to say so but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task

 Mr Holder said he I have been informed that you are in the habit of advancing money

 The firm does so when the security is good I answered

 It is absolutely essential to me said he that I should have $50000 at once I could of course borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place ones self under obligations

 For how long may I ask do you want this sum? I asked

 Next Monday I have a large sum due to me and I shall then most certainly repay what you advance with whatever interest you think it right to charge But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once

 I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse said I were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear If on the other hand I am to do it in the name of the firm then in justice to my partner I must insist that even in your case every businesslike precaution should be taken

 I should much prefer to have it so said he raising up a square black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?

 One of the most precious public possessions of the empire said I

 Precisely He opened the case and there imbedded in soft flesh-coloured velvet lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named There are thirty-nine enormous beryls said he and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked I am prepared to leave it with you as my security

I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client

 You doubt its value? he asked

 Not at all I only doubt--

 The propriety of my leaving it You may set your mind at rest about that I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it It is a pure matter of form Is the security sufficient?

 Ample

 You understand Mr Holder that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which I have in you founded upon all that I have heard of you I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip upon the matter but above all to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because I need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it Any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss for there are no beryls in the world to match these and it would be impossible to replace them I leave it with you however with every confidence and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning

Seeing that my client was anxious to leave I said no more but calling for my cashier I ordered him to pay over fifty $1000 notes When I was alone once more however with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me There could be no doubt that as it was a national possession a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it However it was too late to alter the matter now so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work

When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me Bankers safes had been forced before now and why should not mine be? If so how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself! I determined therefore that for the next few days I would always carry the case backward and forward with me so that it might never be really out of my reach With this intention I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham carrying the jewel with me I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room

And now a word as to my household Mr Holmes for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation My groom and my page sleep out of the house and may be set aside altogether I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion Another Lucy Parr the second waiting-maid has only been in my service a few months She came with an excellent character however and has always given me satisfaction She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place That is the only drawback which we have found to her but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way

So much for the servants My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it I am a widower and have an only son Arthur He has been a disappointment to me Mr Holmes--a grievous disappointment I have no doubt that I am myself to blame People tell me that I have spoiled him Very likely I have When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face I have never denied him a wish Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner but I meant it for the best

It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business but he was not of a business turn He was wild wayward and to speak the truth I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club and there having charming manners he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance that he might settle his debts of honour He tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping but each time the influence of his friend Sir George Burnwell was enough to draw him back again

And indeed I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him for he has frequently brought him to my house and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of his manner He is older than Arthur a man of the world to his finger-tips one who had been everywhere seen everything a brilliant talker and a man of great personal beauty Yet when I think of him in cold blood far away from the glamour of his presence I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted So I think and so too thinks my little Mary who has a womans quick insight into character

And now there is only she to be described She is my niece; but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter She is a sunbeam in my house--sweet loving beautiful a wonderful manager and housekeeper yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be She is my right hand I do not know what I could do without her In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes Twice my boy has asked her to marry him for he loves her devotedly but each time she has refused him I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but now alas! it is too late--forever too late!

Now Mr Holmes you know the people who live under my roof and I shall continue with my miserable story

When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner I told Arthur and Mary my experience and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof suppressing only the name of my client Lucy Parr who had brought in the coffee had I am sure left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet but I thought it better not to disturb it

 Where have you put it? asked Arthur

 In my own bureau

 Well I hope to goodness the house wont be burgled during the night said he

 It is locked up I answered

 Oh any old key will fit that bureau When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard

He often had a wild way of talking so that I thought little of what he said He followed me to my room however that night with a very grave face

 Look here dad said he with his eyes cast down can you let me have $200?

 No I cannot! I answered sharply I have been far too generous with you in money matters

 You have been very kind said he but I must have this money or else I can never show my face inside the club again

 And a very good thing too! I cried

 Yes but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man said he I could not bear the disgrace I must raise the money in some way and if you will not let me have it then I must try other means

I was very angry for this was the third demand during the month You shall not have a farthing from me I cried on which he bowed and left the room without another word

When he was gone I unlocked my bureau made sure that my treasure was safe and locked it again Then I started to go round the house to see that all was secure--a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I thought it well to perform myself that night As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall which she closed and fastened as I approached

 Tell me dad said she looking I thought a little disturbed did you give Lucy the maid leave to go out to-night?

 Certainly not

 She came in just now by the back door I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped

 You must speak to her in the morning or I will if you prefer it Are you sure that everything is fastened?

 Quite sure dad

 Then good-night I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again where I was soon asleep

I am endeavouring to tell you everything Mr Holmes which may have any bearing upon the case but I beg that you will question me upon any point which I do not make clear

On the contrary your statement is singularly lucid

I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so I am not a very heavy sleeper and the anxiety in my mind tended no doubt to make me even less so than usual About two in the morning then I was awakened by some sound in the house It had ceased ere I was wide awake but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere I lay listening with all my ears Suddenly to my horror there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room I slipped out of bed all palpitating with fear and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door

 Arthur! I screamed you villain! you thief! How dare you touch that coronet?

The gas was half up as I had left it and my unhappy boy dressed only in his shirt and trousers was standing beside the light holding the coronet in his hands He appeared to be wrenching at it or bending it with all his strength At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death I snatched it up and examined it One of the gold corners with three of the beryls in it was missing

 You blackguard! I shouted beside myself with rage You have destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the jewels which you have stolen?

 Stolen! he cried

 Yes thief! I roared shaking him by the shoulder

 There are none missing There cannot be any missing said he

 There are three missing And you know where they are Must I call you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?

 You have called me names enough said he I will not stand it any longer I shall not say another word about this business since you have chosen to insult me I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world

 You shall leave it in the hands of the police! I cried half-mad with grief and rage I shall have this matter probed to the bottom

 You shall learn nothing from me said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature If you choose to call the police let the police find what they can

By this time the whole house was astir for I had raised my voice in my anger Mary was the first to rush into my room and at the sight of the coronet and of Arthurs face she read the whole story and with a scream fell down senseless on the ground I sent the house-maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once When the inspector and a constable entered the house Arthur who had stood sullenly with his arms folded asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter but had become a public one since the ruined coronet was national property I was determined that the law should have its way in everything

 At least said he you will not have me arrested at once It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for five minutes

 That you may get away or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen said I And then realising the dreadful position in which I was placed I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones

 You may as well face the matter said I; you have been caught in the act and no confession could make your guilt more heinous If you but make such reparation as is in your power by telling us where the beryls are all shall be forgiven and forgotten

 Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it he answered turning away from me with a sneer I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him There was but one way for it I called in the inspector and gave him into custody A search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could be found nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats This morning he was removed to a cell and I after going through all the police formalities have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it You may go to any expense which you think necessary I have already offered a reward of $1000 My God what shall I do! I have lost my honour my gems and my son in one night Oh what shall I do!

He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire

Do you receive much company? he asked

None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of Arthurs Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately No one else I think

Do you go out much in society?

Arthur does Mary and I stay at home We neither of us care for it

That is unusual in a young girl

She is of a quiet nature Besides she is not so very young She is four-and-twenty

This matter from what you say seems to have been a shock to her also

Terrible! She is even more affected than I

You have neither of you any doubt as to your sons guilt?

How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands

I hardly consider that a conclusive proof Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?

Yes it was twisted

Do you not think then that he might have been trying to straighten it?

God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me But it is too heavy a task What was he doing there at all? If his purpose were innocent why did he not say so?

Precisely And if it were guilty why did he not invent a lie? His silence appears to me to cut both ways There are several singular points about the case What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?

They considered that it might be caused by Arthurs closing his bedroom door

A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household What did they say then of the disappearance of these gems?

They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them

Have they thought of looking outside the house?

Yes they have shown extraordinary energy The whole garden has already been minutely examined

Now my dear sir said Holmes is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex Consider what is involved by your theory You suppose that your son came down from his bed went at great risk to your dressing-room opened your bureau took out your coronet broke off by main force a small portion of it went off to some other place concealed three gems out of the thirty-nine with such skill that nobody can find them and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered I ask you now is such a theory tenable?

But what other is there? cried the banker with a gesture of despair If his motives were innocent why does he not explain them?

It is our task to find that out replied Holmes; so now if you please Mr Holder we will set off for Streatham together and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details

My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition which I was eager enough to do for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened I confess that the guilt of the bankers son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father but still I had such faith in Holmes judgment that I felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes sunk in the deepest thought Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank the modest residence of the great financier

Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone standing back a little from the road A double carriage-sweep with a snow-clad lawn stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance On the right side was a small wooden thicket which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door and forming the tradesmens entrance On the left ran a lane which led to the stables and was not itself within the grounds at all being a public though little used thoroughfare Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house across the front down the tradesmens path and so round by the garden behind into the stable lane So long was he that Mr Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in She was rather above the middle height slim with dark hair and eyes which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a womans face Her lips too were bloodless but her eyes were flushed with crying As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character with immense capacity for self-restraint Disregarding my presence she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress

You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated have you not dad? she asked

No no my girl the matter must be probed to the bottom

But I am so sure that he is innocent You know what womans instincts are I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly

Why is he silent then if he is innocent?

Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him

How could I help suspecting him when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?

Oh but he had only picked it up to look at it Oh do do take my word for it that he is innocent Let the matter drop and say no more It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!

I shall never let it drop until the gems are found--never Mary! Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me Far from hushing the thing up I have brought a gentleman down from London to inquire more deeply into it

This gentleman? she asked facing round to me

No his friend He wished us to leave him alone He is round in the stable lane now

The stable lane? She raised her dark eyebrows What can he hope to find there? Ah! this I suppose is he I trust sir that you will succeed in proving what I feel sure is the truth that my cousin Arthur is innocent of this crime

I fully share your opinion and I trust with you that we may prove it returned Holmes going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder Might I ask you a question or two?

Pray do sir if it may help to clear this horrible affair up

You heard nothing yourself last night?

Nothing until my uncle here began to speak loudly I heard that and I came down

You shut up the windows and doors the night before Did you fasten all the windows?

Yes

Were they all fastened this morning?

Yes

You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?

Yes and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room and who may have heard uncles remarks about the coronet

I see You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart and that the two may have planned the robbery

But what is the good of all these vague theories cried the banker impatiently when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?

Wait a little Mr Holder We must come back to that About this girl Miss Holder You saw her return by the kitchen door I presume?

Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in I saw the man too in the gloom

Do you know him?

Oh yes! he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round His name is Francis Prosper

He stood said Holmes to the left of the door--that is to say farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?

Yes he did

And he is a man with a wooden leg?

Something like fear sprang up in the young ladys expressive black eyes Why you are like a magician said she How do you know that? She smiled but there was no answering smile in Holmes thin eager face

I should be very glad now to go upstairs said he I shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again Perhaps I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up

He walked swiftly round from one to the other pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens Now we shall go upstairs said he at last

The bankers dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber with a grey carpet a large bureau and a long mirror Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock

Which key was used to open it? he asked

That which my son himself indicated--that of the cupboard of the lumber-room

Have you it here?

That is it on the dressing-table

Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau

It is a noiseless lock said he It is no wonder that it did not wake you This case I presume contains the coronet We must have a look at it He opened the case and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table It was a magnificent specimen of the jewellers art and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge where a corner holding three gems had been torn away

Now Mr Holder said Holmes here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost Might I beg that you will break it off

The banker recoiled in horror I should not dream of trying said he

Then I will Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it but without result I feel it give a little said he; but though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers it would take me all my time to break it An ordinary man could not do it Now what do you think would happen if I did break it Mr Holder? There would be a noise like a pistol shot Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?

I do not know what to think It is all dark to me

But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go What do you think Miss Holder?

I confess that I still share my uncles perplexity

Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?

He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt

Thank you We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up With your permission Mr Holder I shall now continue my investigations outside

He went alone at his own request for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult For an hour or more he was at work returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever

I think that I have seen now all that there is to see Mr Holder said he; I can serve you best by returning to my rooms

But the gems Mr Holmes Where are they?

I cannot tell

The banker wrung his hands I shall never see them again! he cried And my son? You give me hopes?

My opinion is in no way altered

Then for Gods sake what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?

If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer I understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you provided only that I get back the gems and that you place no limit on the sum I may draw

I would give my fortune to have them back

Very good I shall look into the matter between this and then Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here again before evening

It was obvious to me that my companions mind was now made up about the case although what his conclusions were was more than I could even dimly imagine Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured to sound him upon the point but he always glided away to some other topic until at last I gave it over in despair It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more He hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer With his collar turned up his shiny seedy coat his red cravat and his worn boots he was a perfect sample of the class

I think that this should do said he glancing into the glass above the fireplace I only wish that you could come with me Watson but I fear that it wont do I may be on the trail in this matter or I may be following a will-o-the-wisp but I shall soon know which it is I hope that I may be back in a few hours He cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard sandwiched it between two rounds of bread and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition

I had just finished my tea when he returned evidently in excellent spirits swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea

I only looked in as I passed said he I am going right on

Where to?

Oh to the other side of the West End It may be some time before I get back Dont wait up for me in case I should be late

How are you getting on?

Oh so so Nothing to complain of I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last but I did not call at the house It is a very sweet little problem and I would not have missed it for a good deal However I must not sit gossiping here but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self

I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply His eyes twinkled and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks He hastened upstairs and a few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt

I waited until midnight but there was no sign of his return so I retired to my room It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent so that his lateness caused me no surprise I do not know at what hour he came in but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other as fresh and trim as possible

You will excuse my beginning without you Watson said he but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning

Why it is after nine now I answered I should not be surprised if that were he I thought I heard a ring

It was indeed our friend the financier I was shocked by the change which had come over him for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould was now pinched and fallen in while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him

I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried said he Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man without a care in the world Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another My niece Mary has deserted me

Deserted you?

Yes Her bed this morning had not been slept in her room was empty and a note for me lay upon the hall table I had said to her last night in sorrow and not in anger that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so It is to that remark that she refers in this note:

 MY DEAREST UNCLE:--I feel that I have brought trouble upon you and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred I cannot with this thought in my mind ever again be happy under your roof and I feel that I must leave you forever Do not worry about my future for that is provided for; and above all do not search for me for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me In life or in death I am ever your loving


 MARY

What could she mean by that note Mr Holmes? Do you think it points to suicide?

No no nothing of the kind It is perhaps the best possible solution I trust Mr Holder that you are nearing the end of your troubles

Ha! You say so! You have heard something Mr Holmes; you have learned something! Where are the gems?

You would not think $1000 apiece an excessive sum for them?

I would pay ten

That would be unnecessary Three thousand will cover the matter And there is a little reward I fancy Have you your check-book? Here is a pen Better make it out for $4000

With a dazed face the banker made out the required check Holmes walked over to his desk took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it and threw it down upon the table

With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up

You have it! he gasped I am saved! I am saved!

The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom

There is one other thing you owe Mr Holder said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly

Owe! He caught up a pen Name the sum and I will pay it

No the debt is not to me You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad your son who has carried himself in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do should I ever chance to have one

Then it was not Arthur who took them?

I told you yesterday and I repeat to-day that it was not

You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known

He knows it already When I had cleared it all up I had an interview with him and finding that he would not tell me the story I told it to him on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me Your news of this morning however may open his lips

For heavens sake tell me then what is this extraordinary mystery!

I will do so and I will show you the steps by which I reached it And let me say to you first that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary They have now fled together

My Mary? Impossible!

It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle He is one of the most dangerous men in England--a ruined gambler an absolutely desperate villain a man without heart or conscience Your niece knew nothing of such men When he breathed his vows to her as he had done to a hundred before her she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart The devil knows best what he said but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening

I cannot and I will not believe it! cried the banker with an ashen face

I will tell you then what occurred in your house last night Your niece when you had as she thought gone to your room slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane His footmarks had pressed right through the snow so long had he stood there She told him of the coronet His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news and he bent her to his will I have no doubt that she loved you but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves and I think that she must have been one She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants escapade with her wooden-legged lover which was all perfectly true

Your boy Arthur went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door so he rose and looking out was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing-room Petrified with astonishment the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair Presently she emerged from the room again and in the light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands She passed down the stairs and he thrilling with horror ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath He saw her stealthily open the window hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom and then closing it once more hurry back to her room passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain

As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved But the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you and how all-important it was to set it right He rushed down just as he was in his bare feet opened the window sprang out into the snow and ran down the lane where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight Sir George Burnwell tried to get away but Arthur caught him and there was a struggle between them your lad tugging at one side of the coronet and his opponent at the other In the scuffle your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye Then something suddenly snapped and your son finding that he had the coronet in his hands rushed back closed the window ascended to your room and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene

Is it possible? gasped the banker

You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands He took the more chivalrous view however and preserved her secret

And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet cried Mr Holder Oh my God! what a blind fool I have been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle How cruelly I have misjudged him!

When I arrived at the house continued Holmes I at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me I knew that none had fallen since the evening before and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions I passed along the tradesmens path but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable Just beyond it however at the far side of the kitchen door a woman had stood and talked with a man whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg I could even tell that they had been disturbed for the woman had run back swiftly to the door as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks while Wooden-leg had waited a little and then had gone away I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart of whom you had already spoken to me and inquiry showed it was so I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me

There was a double line of tracks of a booted man and a second double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son The first had walked both ways but the other had run swiftly and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot it was obvious that he had passed after the other I followed them up and found they led to the hall window where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting Then I walked to the other end which was a hundred yards or more down the lane I saw where Boots had faced round where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle and finally where a few drops of blood had fallen to show me that I was not mistaken Boots had then run down the lane and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt When he came to the highroad at the other end I found that the pavement had been cleared so there was an end to that clue

On entering the house however I examined as you remember the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens and I could at once see that someone had passed out I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred A man had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected He had returned with the prize but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent So far I was clear The question now was who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?

It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible whatever remains however improbable must be the truth Now I knew that it was not you who had brought it down so there only remained your niece and the maids But if it were the maids why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place? There could be no possible reason As he loved his cousin however there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret--the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one When I remembered that you had seen her at that window and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again my conjecture became a certainty

And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you? I knew that you went out little and that your circle of friends was a very limited one But among them was Sir George Burnwell I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him he might still flatter himself that he was safe for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family

Well your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir Georges house managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet learned that his master had cut his head the night before and finally at the expense of six shillings made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks

I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening said Mr Holder

Precisely It was I I found that I had my man so I came home and changed my clothes It was a delicate part which I had to play then for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter I went and saw him At first of course he denied everything But when I gave him every particular that had occurred he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall I knew my man however and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike Then he became a little more reasonable I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held--$1000 apiece That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown Why dash it all! said he Ive let them go at six hundred for the three! I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them on promising him that there would be no prosecution Off I set to him and after much chaffering I got our stones at $1000 apiece Then I looked in upon your son told him that all was right and eventually got to my bed about two oclock after what I may call a really hard days work

A day which has saved England from a great public scandal said the banker rising Sir I cannot find words to thank you but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done Your skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him As to what you tell me of poor Mary it goes to my very heart Not even your skill can inform me where she is now

I think that we may safely say returned Holmes that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is It is equally certain too that whatever her sins are they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment

XII  THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES


To the man who loves art for its own sake remarked Sherlock Holmes tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the Daily Telegraph it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived It is pleasant to me to observe Watson that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up and I am bound to say occasionally to embellish you have given prominence not so much to the many causes celebres and sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special province

And yet said I smiling I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records

You have erred perhaps he observed taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a meditative mood--you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only notable feature about the thing

It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter I remarked with some coldness for I was repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friends singular character

No it is not selfishness or conceit said he answering as was his wont my thoughts rather than my words If I claim full justice for my art it is because it is an impersonal thing--a thing beyond myself Crime is common Logic is rare Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell You have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales

It was a cold morning of the early spring and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses and the opposing windows loomed like dark shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal for the table had not been cleared yet Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last having apparently given up his search he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings

At the same time he remarked after a pause during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in a fair proportion do not treat of crime in its legal sense at all The small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia the singular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip and the incident of the noble bachelor were all matters which are outside the pale of the law But in avoiding the sensational I fear that you may have bordered on the trivial

The end may have been so I answered but the methods I hold to have been novel and of interest

Pshaw my dear fellow what do the public the great unobservant public who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction! But indeed if you are trivial I cannot blame you for the days of the great cases are past Man or at least criminal man has lost all enterprise and originality As to my own little practice it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools I think that I have touched bottom at last however This note I had this morning marks my zero-point I fancy Read it! He tossed a crumpled letter across to me

It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening and ran thus:

DEAR MR HOLMES:--I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you Yours faithfully


VIOLET HUNTER

Do you know the young lady? I asked

Not I

It is half-past ten now

Yes and I have no doubt that is her ring

It may turn out to be of more interest than you think You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle which appeared to be a mere whim at first developed into a serious investigation It may be so in this case also

Well let us hope so But our doubts will very soon be solved for here unless I am much mistaken is the person in question

As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room She was plainly but neatly dressed with a bright quick face freckled like a plovers egg and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own way to make in the world

You will excuse my troubling you I am sure said she as my companion rose to greet her but I have had a very strange experience and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask advice I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what I should do

Pray take a seat Miss Hunter I shall be happy to do anything that I can to serve you

I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client He looked her over in his searching fashion and then composed himself with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together to listen to her story

I have been a governess for five years said she in the family of Colonel Spence Munro but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at Halifax in Nova Scotia and took his children over to America with him so that I found myself without a situation I advertised and I answered advertisements but without success At last the little money which I had saved began to run short and I was at my wits end as to what I should do

There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called Westaways and there I used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me Westaway was the name of the founder of the business but it is really managed by Miss Stoper She sits in her own little office and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom and are then shown in one by one when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them

Well when I called last week I was shown into the little office as usual but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone A prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper

 That will do said he; I could not ask for anything better Capital! capital! He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him

 You are looking for a situation miss? he asked

 Yes sir

 As governess?

 Yes sir

 And what salary do you ask?

 I had $4 a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro

 Oh tut tut! sweating--rank sweating! he cried throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?

 My accomplishments sir may be less than you imagine said I A little French a little German music and drawing--

 Tut tut! he cried This is all quite beside the question The point is have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady? There it is in a nutshell If you have not you are not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country But if you have why then how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures? Your salary with me madam would commence at $100 a year

You may imagine Mr Holmes that to me destitute as I was such an offer seemed almost too good to be true The gentleman however seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face opened a pocket-book and took out a note

 It is also my custom said he smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white creases of his face to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe

It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man As I was already in debt to my tradesmen the advance was a great convenience and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I quite committed myself

 May I ask where you live sir? said I

 Hampshire Charming rural place The Copper Beeches five miles on the far side of Winchester It is the most lovely country my dear young lady and the dearest old country-house

 And my duties sir? I should be glad to know what they would be

 One child--one dear little romper just six years old Oh if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three gone before you could wink! He leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again

I was a little startled at the nature of the childs amusement but the fathers laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking

 My sole duties then I asked are to take charge of a single child?

 No no not the sole not the sole my dear young lady he cried Your duty would be as I am sure your good sense would suggest to obey any little commands my wife might give provided always that they were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey You see no difficulty heh?

 I should be happy to make myself useful

 Quite so In dress now for example We are faddy people you know--faddy but kind-hearted If you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you you would not object to our little whim Heh?

 No said I considerably astonished at his words

 Or to sit here or sit there that would not be offensive to you?

 Oh no

 Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?

I could hardly believe my ears As you may observe Mr Holmes my hair is somewhat luxuriant and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut It has been considered artistic I could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion

 I am afraid that that is quite impossible said I He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes and I could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke

 I am afraid that it is quite essential said he It is a little fancy of my wifes and ladies fancies you know madam ladies fancies must be consulted And so you wont cut your hair?

 No sir I really could not I answered firmly

 Ah very well; then that quite settles the matter It is a pity because in other respects you would really have done very nicely In that case Miss Stoper I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies

The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal

 Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books? she asked

 If you please Miss Stoper

 Well really it seems rather useless since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion said she sharply You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you Good-day to you Miss Hunter She struck a gong upon the table and I was shown out by the page

Well Mr Holmes when I got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard and two or three bills upon the table I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing After all if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity Very few governesses in England are getting $100 a year Besides what use was my hair to me? Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake and by the day after I was sure of it I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received this letter from the gentleman himself I have it here and I will read it to you:


 The Copper Beeches near Winchester

 DEAR MISS HUNTER:--Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your address and I write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision My wife is very anxious that you should come for she has been much attracted by my description of you We are willing to give $30 a quarter or $120 a year so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may cause you They are not very exacting after all My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning You need not however go to the expense of purchasing one as we have one belonging to my dear daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia) which would I should think fit you very well Then as to sitting here or there or amusing yourself in any manner indicated that need cause you no inconvenience As regards your hair it is no doubt a pity especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this point and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss Your duties as far as the child is concerned are very light Now do try to come and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester Let me know your train Yours faithfully


 JEPHRO RUCASTLE

That is the letter which I have just received Mr Holmes and my mind is made up that I will accept it I thought however that before taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration

Well Miss Hunter if your mind is made up that settles the question said Holmes smiling

But you would not advise me to refuse?

I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for

What is the meaning of it all Mr Holmes?

Ah I have no data I cannot tell Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?

Well there seems to me to be only one possible solution Mr Rucastle seemed to be a very kind good-natured man Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?

That is a possible solution--in fact as matters stand it is the most probable one But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady

But the money Mr Holmes the money!

Well yes of course the pay is good--too good That is what makes me uneasy Why should they give you $120 a year when they could have their pick for $40? There must be some strong reason behind

I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if I wanted your help I should feel so much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me

Oh you may carry that feeling away with you I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months There is something distinctly novel about some of the features If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger--

Danger! What danger do you foresee?

Holmes shook his head gravely It would cease to be a danger if we could define it said he But at any time day or night a telegram would bring me down to your help

That is enough She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my mind now I shall write to Mr Rucastle at once sacrifice my poor hair to-night and start for Winchester to-morrow With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her way

At least said I as we heard her quick firm steps descending the stairs she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take care of herself

And she would need to be said Holmes gravely I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past

It was not very long before my friends prediction was fulfilled A fortnight went by during which I frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into The unusual salary the curious conditions the light duties all pointed to something abnormal though whether a fad or a plot or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain it was quite beyond my powers to determine As to Holmes I observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end with knitted brows and an abstracted air but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it Data! data! data! he cried impatiently I cant make bricks without clay And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation

The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the morning He opened the yellow envelope and then glancing at the message threw it across to me

Just look up the trains in Bradshaw said he and turned back to his chemical studies

The summons was a brief and urgent one

Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow it said Do come! I am at my wits end


HUNTER

Will you come with me? asked Holmes glancing up

I should wish to

Just look it up then

There is a train at half-past nine said I glancing over my Bradshaw It is due at Winchester at 11:30

That will do very nicely Then perhaps I had better postpone my analysis of the acetones as we may need to be at our best in the morning

By eleven oclock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery It was an ideal spring day a light blue sky flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east The sun was shining very brightly and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air which set an edge to a mans energy All over the countryside away to the rolling hills around Aldershot the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage

Are they not fresh and beautiful? I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street

But Holmes shook his head gravely

Do you know Watson said he that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to my own special subject You look at these scattered houses and you are impressed by their beauty I look at them and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there

Good heavens! I cried Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?

They always fill me with a certain horror It is my belief Watson founded upon my experience that the lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside

You horrify me!

But the reason is very obvious The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish There is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child or the thud of a drunkards blow does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going and there is but a step between the crime and the dock But look at these lonely houses each in its own fields filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty the hidden wickedness which may go on year in year out in such places and none the wiser Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester I should never have had a fear for her It is the five miles of country which makes the danger Still it is clear that she is not personally threatened

No If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away

Quite so She has her freedom

What can be the matter then? Can you suggest no explanation?

I have devised seven separate explanations each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them But which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us Well there is the tower of the cathedral and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell

The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street at no distance from the station and there we found the young lady waiting for us She had engaged a sitting-room and our lunch awaited us upon the table

I am so delighted that you have come she said earnestly It is so very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me

Pray tell us what has happened to you

I will do so and I must be quick for I have promised Mr Rucastle to be back before three I got his leave to come into town this morning though he little knew for what purpose

Let us have everything in its due order Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen

In the first place I may say that I have met on the whole with no actual ill-treatment from Mr and Mrs Rucastle It is only fair to them to say that But I cannot understand them and I am not easy in my mind about them

What can you not understand?

Their reasons for their conduct But you shall have it all just as it occurred When I came down Mr Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches It is as he said beautifully situated but it is not beautiful in itself for it is a large square block of a house whitewashed but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather There are grounds round it woods on three sides and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton highroad which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door This ground in front belongs to the house but the woods all round are part of Lord Southertons preserves A clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place

I was driven over by my employer who was as amiable as ever and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child There was no truth Mr Holmes in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street Mrs Rucastle is not mad I found her to be a silent pale-faced woman much younger than her husband not more than thirty I should think while he can hardly be less than forty-five From their conversation I have gathered that they have been married about seven years that he was a widower and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia Mr Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother As the daughter could not have been less than twenty I can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her fathers young wife

Mrs Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse She was a nonentity It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other noting every little want and forestalling it if possible He was kind to her also in his bluff boisterous fashion and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple And yet she had some secret sorrow this woman She would often be lost in deep thought with the saddest look upon her face More than once I have surprised her in tears I have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind for I have never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature He is small for his age with a head which is quite disproportionately large His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice little birds and insects But I would rather not talk about the creature Mr Holmes and indeed he has little to do with my story

I am glad of all details remarked my friend whether they seem to you to be relevant or not

I shall try not to miss anything of importance The one unpleasant thing about the house which struck me at once was the appearance and conduct of the servants There are only two a man and his wife Toller for that is his name is a rough uncouth man with grizzled hair and whiskers and a perpetual smell of drink Twice since I have been with them he has been quite drunk and yet Mr Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face as silent as Mrs Rucastle and much less amiable They are a most unpleasant couple but fortunately I spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room which are next to each other in one corner of the building

For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet; on the third Mrs Rucastle came down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband

 Oh yes said he turning to me we are very much obliged to you Miss Hunter for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged

The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue It was of excellent material a sort of beige but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before It could not have been a better fit if I had been measured for it Both Mr and Mrs Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence They were waiting for me in the drawing-room which is a very large room stretching along the entire front of the house with three long windows reaching down to the floor A chair had been placed close to the central window with its back turned towards it In this I was asked to sit and then Mr Rucastle walking up and down on the other side of the room began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that I have ever listened to You cannot imagine how comical he was and I laughed until I was quite weary Mrs Rucastle however who has evidently no sense of humour never so much as smiled but sat with her hands in her lap and a sad anxious look upon her face After an hour or so Mr Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day and that I might change my dress and go to little Edward in the nursery

Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances Again I changed my dress again I sat in the window and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense repertoire and which he told inimitably Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel and moving my chair a little sideways that my own shadow might not fall upon the page he begged me to read aloud to him I read for about ten minutes beginning in the heart of a chapter and then suddenly in the middle of a sentence he ordered me to cease and to change my dress

You can easily imagine Mr Holmes how curious I became as to what the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be They were always very careful I observed to turn my face away from the window so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back At first it seemed to be impossible but I soon devised a means My hand-mirror had been broken so a happy thought seized me and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief On the next occasion in the midst of my laughter I put my handkerchief up to my eyes and was able with a little management to see all that there was behind me I confess that I was disappointed There was nothing At least that was my first impression At the second glance however I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton Road a small bearded man in a grey suit who seemed to be looking in my direction The road is an important highway and there are usually people there This man however was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze She said nothing but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me She rose at once

 Jephro said she there is an impertinent fellow upon the road there who stares up at Miss Hunter

 No friend of yours Miss Hunter? he asked

 No I know no one in these parts

 Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to him to go away

 Surely it would be better to take no notice

 No no we should have him loitering here always Kindly turn round and wave him away like that

I did as I was told and at the same instant Mrs Rucastle drew down the blind That was a week ago and from that time I have not sat again in the window nor have I worn the blue dress nor seen the man in the road

Pray continue said Holmes Your narrative promises to be a most interesting one

You will find it rather disconnected I fear and there may prove to be little relation between the different incidents of which I speak On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches Mr Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain and the sound as of a large animal moving about

 Look in here! said Mr Rucastle showing me a slit between two planks Is he not a beauty?

I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness

 Dont be frightened said my employer laughing at the start which I had given Its only Carlo my mastiff I call him mine but really old Toller my groom is the only man who can do anything with him We feed him once a day and not too much then so that he is always as keen as mustard Toller lets him loose every night and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon For goodness sake dont you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night for its as much as your life is worth

The warning was no idle one for two nights later I happened to look out of my bedroom window about two oclock in the morning It was a beautiful moonlight night and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day I was standing rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene when I was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was It was a giant dog as large as a calf tawny tinted with hanging jowl black muzzle and huge projecting bones It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done

And now I have a very strange experience to tell you I had as you know cut off my hair in London and I had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk One evening after the child was in bed I began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things There was an old chest of drawers in the room the two upper ones empty and open the lower one locked I had filled the first two with my linen and as I had still much to pack away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it The very first key fitted to perfection and I drew the drawer open There was only one thing in it but I am sure that you would never guess what it was It was my coil of hair

I took it up and examined it It was of the same peculiar tint and the same thickness But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me How could my hair have been locked in the drawer? With trembling hands I undid my trunk turned out the contents and drew from the bottom my own hair I laid the two tresses together and I assure you that they were identical Was it not extraordinary? Puzzle as I would I could make nothing at all of what it meant I returned the strange hair to the drawer and I said nothing of the matter to the Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had locked

I am naturally observant as you may have remarked Mr Holmes and I soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head There was one wing however which appeared not to be inhabited at all A door which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into this suite but it was invariably locked One day however as I ascended the stair I met Mr Rucastle coming out through this door his keys in his hand and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round jovial man to whom I was accustomed His cheeks were red his brow was all crinkled with anger and the veins stood out at his temples with passion He locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look

This aroused my curiosity so when I went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge I strolled round to the side from which I could see the windows of this part of the house There were four of them in a row three of which were simply dirty while the fourth was shuttered up They were evidently all deserted As I strolled up and down glancing at them occasionally Mr Rucastle came out to me looking as merry and jovial as ever

 Ah! said he you must not think me rude if I passed you without a word my dear young lady I was preoccupied with business matters

I assured him that I was not offended By the way said I you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there and one of them has the shutters up

He looked surprised and as it seemed to me a little startled at my remark

 Photography is one of my hobbies said he I have made my dark room up there But dear me! what an observant young lady we have come upon Who would have believed it? Who would have ever believed it? He spoke in a jesting tone but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me I read suspicion there and annoyance but no jest

Well Mr Holmes from the moment that I understood that there was something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know I was all on fire to go over them It was not mere curiosity though I have my share of that It was more a feeling of duty--a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place They talk of womans instinct; perhaps it was womans instinct which gave me that feeling At any rate it was there and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door

It was only yesterday that the chance came I may tell you that besides Mr Rucastle both Toller and his wife find something to do in these deserted rooms and I once saw him carrying a large black linen bag with him through the door Recently he has been drinking hard and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was the key in the door I have no doubt at all that he had left it there Mr and Mrs Rucastle were both downstairs and the child was with them so that I had an admirable opportunity I turned the key gently in the lock opened the door and slipped through

There was a little passage in front of me unpapered and uncarpeted which turned at a right angle at the farther end Round this corner were three doors in a line the first and third of which were open They each led into an empty room dusty and cheerless with two windows in the one and one in the other so thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through them The centre door was closed and across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall and fastened at the other with stout cord The door itself was locked as well and the key was not there This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside and yet I could see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not in darkness Evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above As I stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil I suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone out from under the door A mad unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight Mr Holmes My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly and I turned and ran--ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress I rushed down the passage through the door and straight into the arms of Mr Rucastle who was waiting outside

 So said he smiling it was you then I thought that it must be when I saw the door open

 Oh I am so frightened! I panted

 My dear young lady! my dear young lady!--you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was--and what has frightened you my dear young lady?

But his voice was just a little too coaxing He overdid it I was keenly on my guard against him

 I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing I answered But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran out again Oh it is so dreadfully still in there!

 Only that? said he looking at me keenly

 Why what did you think? I asked

 Why do you think that I lock this door?

 I am sure that I do not know

 It is to keep people out who have no business there Do you see? He was still smiling in the most amiable manner

 I am sure if I had known--

 Well then you know now And if you ever put your foot over that threshold again--here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage and he glared down at me with the face of a demon--Ill throw you to the mastiff

I was so terrified that I do not know what I did I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room I remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over Then I thought of you Mr Holmes I could not live there longer without some advice I was frightened of the house of the man of the woman of the servants even of the child They were all horrible to me If I could only bring you down all would be well Of course I might have fled from the house but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears My mind was soon made up I would send you a wire I put on my hat and cloak went down to the office which is about half a mile from the house and then returned feeling very much easier A horrible doubt came into my mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose but I remembered that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that evening and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had any influence with the savage creature or who would venture to set him free I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this morning but I must be back before three oclock for Mr and Mrs Rucastle are going on a visit and will be away all the evening so that I must look after the child Now I have told you all my adventures Mr Holmes and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means and above all what I should do

Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story My friend rose now and paced up and down the room his hands in his pockets and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face

Is Toller still drunk? he asked

Yes I heard his wife tell Mrs Rucastle that she could do nothing with him

That is well And the Rucastles go out to-night?

Yes

Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?

Yes the wine-cellar

You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl Miss Hunter Do you think that you could perform one more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman

I will try What is it?

We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven oclock my friend and I The Rucastles will be gone by that time and Toller will we hope be incapable There only remains Mrs Toller who might give the alarm If you could send her into the cellar on some errand and then turn the key upon her you would facilitate matters immensely

I will do it

Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair Of course there is only one feasible explanation You have been brought there to personate someone and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber That is obvious As to who this prisoner is I have no doubt that it is the daughter Miss Alice Rucastle if I remember right who was said to have gone to America You were chosen doubtless as resembling her in height figure and the colour of your hair Hers had been cut off very possibly in some illness through which she has passed and so of course yours had to be sacrificed also By a curious chance you came upon her tresses The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers--possibly her fiance--and no doubt as you wore the girls dress and were so like her he was convinced from your laughter whenever he saw you and afterwards from your gesture that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy and that she no longer desired his attentions The dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her So much is fairly clear The most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child

What on earth has that to do with it? I ejaculated

My dear Watson you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents Dont you see that the converse is equally valid I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children This childs disposition is abnormally cruel merely for crueltys sake and whether he derives this from his smiling father as I should suspect or from his mother it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power

I am sure that you are right Mr Holmes cried our client A thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it Oh let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature

We must be circumspect for we are dealing with a very cunning man We can do nothing until seven oclock At that hour we shall be with you and it will not be long before we solve the mystery

We were as good as our word for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches having put up our trap at a wayside public-house The group of trees with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun were sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step

Have you managed it? asked Holmes

A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs That is Mrs Toller in the cellar said she Her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug Here are his keys which are the duplicates of Mr Rucastles

You have done well indeed! cried Holmes with enthusiasm Now lead the way and we shall soon see the end of this black business

We passed up the stair unlocked the door followed on down a passage and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had described Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar Then he tried the various keys in the lock but without success No sound came from within and at the silence Holmes face clouded over

I trust that we are not too late said he I think Miss Hunter that we had better go in without you Now Watson put your shoulder to it and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in

It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength Together we rushed into the room It was empty There was no furniture save a little pallet bed a small table and a basketful of linen The skylight above was open and the prisoner gone

There has been some villainy here said Holmes; this beauty has guessed Miss Hunters intentions and has carried his victim off

But how?

Through the skylight We shall soon see how he managed it He swung himself up onto the roof Ah yes he cried heres the end of a long light ladder against the eaves That is how he did it

But it is impossible said Miss Hunter; the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away

He has come back and done it I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair I think Watson that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready

The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room a very fat and burly man with a heavy stick in his hand Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him

You villain! said he wheres your daughter?

The fat man cast his eyes round and then up at the open skylight

It is for me to ask you that he shrieked you thieves! Spies and thieves! I have caught you have I? You are in my power Ill serve you! He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go

Hes gone for the dog! cried Miss Hunter

I have my revolver said I

Better close the front door cried Holmes and we all rushed down the stairs together We had hardly reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound and then a scream of agony with a horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to An elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door

My God! he cried Someone has loosed the dog Its not been fed for two days Quick quick or itll be too late!

Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house with Toller hurrying behind us There was the huge famished brute its black muzzle buried in Rucastles throat while he writhed and screamed upon the ground Running up I blew its brains out and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck With much labour we separated them and carried him living but horribly mangled into the house We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa and having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his wife I did what I could to relieve his pain We were all assembled round him when the door opened and a tall gaunt woman entered the room

Mrs Toller! cried Miss Hunter

Yes miss Mr Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you Ah miss it is a pity you didnt let me know what you were planning for I would have told you that your pains were wasted

Ha! said Holmes looking keenly at her It is clear that Mrs Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else

Yes sir I do and I am ready enough to tell what I know

Then pray sit down and let us hear it for there are several points on which I must confess that I am still in the dark

I will soon make it clear to you said she; and Id have done so before now if I could ha got out from the cellar If theres police-court business over this youll remember that I was the one that stood your friend and that I was Miss Alices friend too

She was never happy at home Miss Alice wasnt from the time that her father married again She was slighted like and had no say in anything but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr Fowler at a friends house As well as I could learn Miss Alice had rights of her own by will but she was so quiet and patient she was that she never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr Rucastles hands He knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward who would ask for all that the law would give him then her father thought it time to put a stop on it He wanted her to sign a paper so that whether she married or not he could use her money When she wouldnt do it he kept on worrying her until she got brain-fever and for six weeks was at deaths door Then she got better at last all worn to a shadow and with her beautiful hair cut off; but that didnt make no change in her young man and he stuck to her as true as man could be

Ah said Holmes I think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear and that I can deduce all that remains Mr Rucastle then I presume took to this system of imprisonment?

Yes sir

And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr Fowler

That was it sir

But Mr Fowler being a persevering man as a good seaman should be blockaded the house and having met you succeeded by certain arguments metallic or otherwise in convincing you that your interests were the same as his

Mr Fowler was a very kind-spoken free-handed gentleman said Mrs Toller serenely

And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of drink and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master had gone out

You have it sir just as it happened

I am sure we owe you an apology Mrs Toller said Holmes for you have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us And here comes the country surgeon and Mrs Rucastle so I think Watson that we had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one

And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door Mr Rucastle survived but was always a broken man kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife They still live with their old servants who probably know so much of Rucastles past life that he finds it difficult to part from them Mr Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married by special license in Southampton the day after their flight and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of Mauritius As to Miss Violet Hunter my friend Holmes rather to my disappointment manifested no further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems and she is now the head of a private school at Walsall where I believe that she has met with considerable success

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ***

This file should be named advsh12hhtm or advsh12hzip
Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks get a new NUMBER advsh13htxt
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER advsh12ahtxt

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the US
unless a copyright notice is included  Thus we usually do not
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition

We are now trying to release all our eBooks one year in advance
of the official release dates leaving time for better editing
Please be encouraged to tell us about any error or corrections
even years after the official publication date

Please note neither this listing nor its contents are final til
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg eBooks is at
Midnight Central Time of the last day of the stated month  A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion comment
and editing by those who wish to do so

Most people start at our Web sites at:
http://gutenbergnet or
http://promonet/pg

These Web sites include award-winning information about Project
Gutenberg including how to donate how to help produce our new
eBooks and how to subscribe to our email newsletter (free!)


Those of you who want to download any eBook before announcement
can get to them as follows and just download by date  This is
also a good way to get them instantly upon announcement as the
indexes our cataloguers produce obviously take a while after an
announcement goes out in the Project Gutenberg Newsletter

http://wwwibiblioorg/gutenberg/etext04 or
ftp://ftpibiblioorg/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext03

Or /etext03 02 01 00 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 92 91 or 90

Just search by the first five letters of the filename you want
as it appears in our Newsletters


Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work  The
time it takes us a rather conservative estimate is fifty hours
to get any eBook selected entered proofread edited copyright
searched and analyzed the copyright letters written etc   Our
projected audience is one hundred million readers  If the value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour in 2002 as we release over 100 new text
files per month:  1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000+
We are already on our way to trying for 2000 more eBooks in 2002
If they reach just 1-2% of the worlds population then the total
will reach over half a trillion eBooks given away by years end

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away 1 Trillion eBooks!
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers
which is only about 4% of the present number of computer users

Here is the briefest record of our progress (* means estimated):

eBooks Year Month

    1  1971 July
   10  1991 January
  100  1994 January
 1000  1997 August
 1500  1998 October
 2000  1999 December
 2500  2000 December
 3000  2001 November
 4000  2001 October/November
 6000  2002 December*
 9000  2003 November*
10000  2004 January*


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been created
to secure a future for Project Gutenberg into the next millennium

We need your donations more than ever!

As of February 2002 contributions are being solicited from people
and organizations in: Alabama Alaska Arkansas Connecticut
Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Illinois
Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Massachusetts
Michigan Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New
Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina Ohio
Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South
Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West
Virginia Wisconsin and Wyoming

We have filed in all 50 states now but these are the only ones
that have responded

As the requirements for other states are met additions to this list
will be made and fund raising will begin in the additional states
Please feel free to ask to check the status of your state

In answer to various questions we have received on this:

We are constantly working on finishing the paperwork to legally
request donations in all 50 states  If your state is not listed and
you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have
just ask

While we cannot solicit donations from people in states where we are
not yet registered we know of no prohibition against accepting
donations from donors in these states who approach us with an offer to
donate

International donations are accepted but we dont know ANYTHING about
how to make them tax-deductible or even if they CAN be made
deductible and dont have the staff to handle it even if there are
ways

Donations by check or money order may be sent to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
PMB 113
1739 University Ave
Oxford MS 38655-4109

Contact us if you want to arrange for a wire transfer or payment
method other than by check or money order

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been approved by
the US Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) organization with EIN
[Employee Identification Number] 64-622154  Donations are
tax-deductible to the maximum extent permitted by law  As fund-raising
requirements for other states are met additions to this list will be
made and fund-raising will begin in the additional states

We need your donations more than ever!

You can get up to date donation information online at:

http://wwwgutenbergnet/donationhtml


***

If you cant reach Project Gutenberg
you can always email directly to:

Michael S Hart <hart@poboxcom>

Prof Hart will answer or forward your message

We would prefer to send you information by email


**The Legal Small Print**


(Three Pages)

***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS**START***
Why is this Small Print! statement here? You know: lawyers
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this eBook even if you got it for free from
someone other than us and even if whats wrong is not our
fault So among other things this Small Print! statement
disclaims most of our liability to you It also tells you how
you may distribute copies of this eBook if you want to

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS EBOOK
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
eBook you indicate that you understand agree to and accept
this Small Print! statement If you do not you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this eBook by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from If you received this eBook on a physical
medium (such as a disk) you must return it with your request

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM EBOOKS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBooks
is a public domain work distributed by Professor Michael S Hart
through the Project Gutenberg Association (the Project)
Among other things this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties Special rules set forth
below apply if you wish to copy and distribute this eBook
under the PROJECT GUTENBERG trademark

Please do not use the PROJECT GUTENBERG trademark to market
any commercial products without permission

To create these eBooks the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify transcribe and proofread public domain
works Despite these efforts the Projects eBooks and any
medium they may be on may contain Defects Among other
things Defects may take the form of incomplete inaccurate or
corrupt data transcription errors a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement a defective or damaged
disk or other eBook medium a computer virus or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the Right of Replacement or Refund described below
[1] Michael Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you may
receive this eBook from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook) disclaims
all liability to you for damages costs and expenses including
legal fees and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT CONSEQUENTIAL PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES

If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of
receiving it you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from If you received it
on a physical medium you must return it with your note and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy If you received it electronically such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically

THIS EBOOK IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU AS-IS NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND EXPRESS OR IMPLIED ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE EBOOK OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you and you
may have other legal rights

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart the Foundation
and its trustees and agents and any volunteers associated
with the production and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
texts harmless from all liability cost and expense including
legal fees that arise directly or indirectly from any of the
following that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this eBook
[2] alteration modification or addition to the eBook
or [3] any Defect

DISTRIBUTION UNDER PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
You may distribute copies of this eBook electronically or by
disk book or any other medium if you either delete this
Small Print! and all other references to Project Gutenberg
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it  Among other things this
     requires that you do not remove alter or modify the
     eBook or this small print! statement  You may however
     if you wish distribute this eBook in machine readable
     binary compressed mark-up or proprietary form
     including any form resulting from conversion by word
     processing or hypertext software but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The eBook when displayed is clearly readable and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work although tilde
          (~) asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The eBook may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the eBook (as is
          the case for instance with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost fee or expense a copy of the
          eBook in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form)

[2]  Honor the eBook refund and replacement provisions of this
     Small Print! statement

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the
     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes  If you
     dont derive profits no royalty is due  Royalties are
     payable to Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were
     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent
     periodic) tax return  Please contact us beforehand to
     let us know your plans and to work out the details

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DONT HAVE TO?
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
in machine readable form

The Project gratefully accepts contributions of money time
public domain materials or royalty free copyright licenses
Money should be paid to the:
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or
software or other items please contact Michael Hart at:
hart@poboxcom

[Portions of this eBooks header and trailer may be reprinted only
when distributed free of all fees  Copyright (C) 2001 2002 by
Michael S Hart  Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be
used in any sales of Project Gutenberg eBooks or other materials be
they hardware or software or any other related product without
express permission]

*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS*Ver02/11/02*END*



The Project Gutenberg EBook of History of the United States
by Charles A Beard and Mary R Beard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever  You may copy it give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at wwwgutenbergnet


Title: History of the United States

Author: Charles A Beard and Mary R Beard

Release Date: October 28 2005 [EBook #16960]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES ***




Produced by Curtis Weyant M and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://wwwpgdpnet







HISTORY

OF THE

UNITED STATES


BY


CHARLES A BEARD

AND

MARY R BEARD



New York

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

1921

_All rights reserved_

COPYRIGHT 1921

BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY


Set up and electrotyped Published March 1921




Norwood Press

JS Cushing Co--Berwick & Smith Co

NORWOOD MASS USA




PREFACE


As things now stand the course of instruction in American history in
our public schools embraces three distinct treatments of the subject
Three separate books are used First there is the primary book which
is usually a very condensed narrative with emphasis on biographies and
anecdotes Second there is the advanced text for the seventh or eighth
grade generally speaking an expansion of the elementary book by the
addition of forty or fifty thousand words Finally there is the high
school manual This too ordinarily follows the beaten path giving
fuller accounts of the same events and characters To put it bluntly we
do not assume that our children obtain permanent possessions from their
study of history in the lower grades If mathematicians followed the
same method high school texts on algebra and geometry would include the
multiplication table and fractions

There is of course a ready answer to the criticism advanced above It
is that teachers have learned from bitter experience how little history
their pupils retain as they pass along the regular route No teacher of
history will deny this Still it is a standing challenge to existing
methods of historical instruction If the study of history cannot be
made truly progressive like the study of mathematics science and
languages then the historians assume a grave responsibility in adding
their subject to the already overloaded curriculum If the successive
historical texts are only enlarged editions of the first text--more
facts more dates more words--then history deserves most of the sharp
criticism which it is receiving from teachers of science civics and
economics

In this condition of affairs we find our justification for offering a
new high school text in American history Our first contribution is one
of omission The time-honored stories of exploration and the
biographies of heroes are left out We frankly hold that if pupils know
little or nothing about Columbus Cortes Magellan or Captain John
Smith by the time they reach the high school it is useless to tell the
same stories for perhaps the fourth time It is worse than useless It
is an offense against the teachers of those subjects that are
demonstrated to be progressive in character

In the next place we have omitted all descriptions of battles Our
reasons for this are simple The strategy of a campaign or of a single
battle is a highly technical and usually a highly controversial matter
about which experts differ widely In the field of military and naval
operations most writers and teachers of history are mere novices To
dispose of Gettysburg or the Wilderness in ten lines or ten pages is
equally absurd to the serious student of military affairs Any one who
compares the ordinary textbook account of a single Civil War campaign
with the account given by Ropes for instance will ask for no further
comment No youth called upon to serve our country in arms would think
of turning to a high school manual for information about the art of
warfare The dramatic scene or episode so useful in arousing the
interest of the immature pupil seems out of place in a book that
deliberately appeals to boys and girls on the very threshold of lifes
serious responsibilities

It is not upon negative features however that we rest our case It is
rather upon constructive features

_First_ We have written a topical not a narrative history We have
tried to set forth the important aspects problems and movements of
each period bringing in the narrative rather by way of illustration

_Second_ We have emphasized those historical topics which help to
explain how our nation has come to be what it is to-day

_Third_ We have dwelt fully upon the social and economic aspects of our
history especially in relation to the politics of each period

_Fourth_ We have treated the causes and results of wars the problems
of financing and sustaining armed forces rather than military strategy
These are the subjects which belong to a history for civilians These
are matters which civilians can understand--matters which they must
understand if they are to play well their part in war and peace

_Fifth_ By omitting the period of exploration we have been able to
enlarge the treatment of our own time We have given special attention
to the history of those current questions which must form the subject
matter of sound instruction in citizenship

_Sixth_ We have borne in mind that America with all her unique
characteristics is a part of a general civilization Accordingly we
have given diplomacy foreign affairs world relations and the
reciprocal influences of nations their appropriate place

_Seventh_ We have deliberately aimed at standards of maturity The
study of a mere narrative calls mainly for the use of the memory We
have aimed to stimulate habits of analysis comparison association
reflection and generalization--habits calculated to enlarge as well as
inform the mind We have been at great pains to make our text clear
simple and direct; but we have earnestly sought to stretch the
intellects of our readers--to put them upon their mettle Most of them
will receive the last of their formal instruction in the high school
The world will soon expect maturity from them Their achievements will
depend upon the possession of other powers than memory alone The
effectiveness of their citizenship in our republic will be measured by
the excellence of their judgment as well as the fullness of their
information

     CAB
     MRB

     NEW YORK CITY
     February 8 1921




A SMALL LIBRARY IN AMERICAN HISTORY


_SINGLE VOLUMES:_

BASSETT JS _A Short History of the United States_
ELSON HW _History of the United States of America_


_SERIES:_

EPOCHS OF AMERICAN HISTORY EDITED BY AB HART

HART AB _Formation of the Union_
THWAITES RG _The Colonies_
WILSON WOODROW _Division and Reunion_

RIVERSIDE SERIES EDITED BY WE DODD

BECKER CL _Beginnings of the American People_
DODD WE _Expansion and Conflict_
JOHNSON A _Union and Democracy_
PAXSON FL _The New Nation_




CONTENTS


PART I THE COLONIAL PERIOD

CHAPTER                                                           PAGE
    I  THE GREAT MIGRATION TO AMERICA                               1
          The Agencies of American Colonization                      2
          The Colonial Peoples                                       6
          The Process of Colonization                               12

   II  COLONIAL AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE                20
          The Land and the Westward Movement                        20
          Industrial and Commercial Development                     28

  III  SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PROGRESS                               38
          The Leadership of the Churches                            39
          Schools and Colleges                                      43
          The Colonial Press                                        46
          The Evolution in Political Institutions                   48

   IV  THE DEVELOPMENT OF COLONIAL NATIONALISM                     56
          Relations with the Indians and the French                 57
          The Effects of Warfare on the Colonies                    61
          Colonial Relations with the British Government            64
          Summary of Colonial Period                                73


PART II CONFLICT AND INDEPENDENCE

    V  THE NEW COURSE IN BRITISH IMPERIAL POLICY                   77
          George III and His System                                 77
          George IIIs Ministers and Their Colonial Policies        79
          Colonial Resistance Forces Repeal                         83
          Resumption of British Revenue and Commercial Policies     87
          Renewed Resistance in America                             90
          Retaliation by the British Government                     93
          From Reform to Revolution in America                      95

   VI  THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION                                     99
          Resistance and Retaliation                                99
          American Independence                                    101
          The Establishment of Government and the New Allegiance   108
          Military Affairs                                         116
          The Finances of the Revolution                           125
          The Diplomacy of the Revolution                          127
          Peace at Last                                            132
          Summary of the Revolutionary Period                      135


PART III FOUNDATIONS OF THE UNION AND NATIONAL POLITICS

  VII  THE FORMATION OF THE CONSTITUTION                          139
          The Promise and the Difficulties of America              139
          The Calling of a Constitutional Convention               143
          The Framing of the Constitution                          146
          The Struggle over Ratification                           157

 VIII  THE CLASH OF POLITICAL PARTIES                             162
          The Men and Measures of the New Government               162
          The Rise of Political Parties                            168
          Foreign Influences and Domestic Politics                 171

   IX  THE JEFFERSONIAN REPUBLICANS IN POWER                      186
          Republican Principles and Policies                       186
          The Republicans and the Great West                       188
          The Republican War for Commercial Independence           193
          The Republicans Nationalized                             201
          The National Decisions of Chief Justice Marshall         208
          Summary of Union and National Politics                   212


PART IV THE WEST AND JACKSONIAN DEMOCRACY

    X  THE FARMERS BEYOND THE APPALACHIANS                        217
          Preparation for Western Settlement                       217
          The Western Migration and New States                     221
          The Spirit of the Frontier                               228
          The West and the East Meet                               230

   XI  JACKSONIAN DEMOCRACY                                       238
          The Democratic Movement in the East                      238
          The New Democracy Enters the Arena                       244
          The New Democracy at Washington                          250
          The Rise of the Whigs                                    260
          The Interaction of American and European Opinion         265

  XII  THE MIDDLE BORDER AND THE GREAT WEST                       271
          The Advance of the Middle Border                         271
          On to the Pacific--Texas and the Mexican War             276
          The Pacific Coast and Utah                               284
          Summary of Western Development and National Politics     292


PART V SECTIONAL CONFLICT AND RECONSTRUCTION

 XIII  THE RISE OF THE INDUSTRIAL SYSTEM                          295
          The Industrial Revolution                                296
          The Industrial Revolution and National Politics          307

  XIV  THE PLANTING SYSTEM AND NATIONAL POLITICS                  316
          Slavery--North and South                                 316
          Slavery in National Politics                             324
          The Drift of Events toward the Irrepressible Conflict    332

   XV  THE CIVIL WAR AND RECONSTRUCTION                           344
          The Southern Confederacy                                 344
          The War Measures of the Federal Government               350
          The Results of the Civil War                             365
          Reconstruction in the South                              370
          Summary of the Sectional Conflict                        375


PART VI NATIONAL GROWTH AND WORLD POLITICS

  XVI  THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC EVOLUTION OF THE SOUTH          379
          The South at the Close of the War                        379
          The Restoration of White Supremacy                       382
          The Economic Advance of the South                        389

 XVII  BUSINESS ENTERPRISE AND THE REPUBLICAN PARTY               401
          Railways and Industry                                    401
          The Supremacy of the Republican Party (1861-1885)        412
          The Growth of Opposition to Republican Rule              417

XVIII  THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GREAT WEST                          425
          The Railways as Trail Blazers                            425
          The Evolution of Grazing and Agriculture                 431
          Mining and Manufacturing in the West                     436
          The Admission of New States                              440
          The Influence of the Far West on National Life           443

  XIX  DOMESTIC ISSUES BEFORE THE COUNTRY (1865-1897)             451
          The Currency Question                                    452
          The Protective Tariff and Taxation                       459
          The Railways and Trusts                                  460
          The Minor Parties and Unrest                             462
          The Sound Money Battle of 1896                           466
          Republican Measures and Results                          472

   XX  AMERICA A WORLD POWER (1865-1900)                          477
          American Foreign Relations (1865-1898)                   478
          Cuba and the Spanish War                                 485
          American Policies in the Philippines and the Orient      497
          Summary of National Growth and World Politics            504


PART VII PROGRESSIVE DEMOCRACY AND THE WORLD WAR

  XXI  THE EVOLUTION OF REPUBLICAN POLICIES (1901-1913)           507
          Foreign Affairs                                          508
          Colonial Administration                                  515
          The Roosevelt Domestic Policies                          519
          Legislative and Executive Activities                     523
          The Administration of President Taft                     527
          Progressive Insurgency and the Election of 1912          530

 XXII  THE SPIRIT OF REFORM IN AMERICA                            536
          An Age of Criticism                                      536
          Political Reforms                                        538
          Measures of Economic Reform                              546

XXIII  THE NEW POLITICAL DEMOCRACY                                554
          The Rise of the Woman Movement                           555
          The National Struggle for Woman Suffrage                 562

 XXIV  INDUSTRIAL DEMOCRACY                                       570
          Cooperation between Employers and Employees              571
          The Rise and Growth of Organized Labor                   575
          The Wider Relations of Organized Labor                   577
          Immigration and Americanization                          582

  XXV  PRESIDENT WILSON AND THE WORLD WAR                         588
          Domestic Legislation                                     588
          Colonial and Foreign Policies                            592
          The United States and the European War                   596
          The United States at War                                 604
          The Settlement at Paris                                  612
          Summary of Democracy and the World War                   620

APPENDIX                                                           627

A TOPICAL SYLLABUS                                                 645

INDEX                                                              655




MAPS


                                                                   PAGE
The Original Grants (color map)                         _Facing_     4

German and Scotch-Irish Settlements                                  8

Distribution of Population in 1790                                  27

English French and Spanish Possessions in America 1750
      (color map)                                      _Facing_     59

The Colonies at the Time of the Declaration of Independence
      (color map)                                     _Facing_     108

North America according to the Treaty of 1783
      (color map)                                     _Facing_     134

The United States in 1805 (color map)                 _Facing_     193

Roads and Trails into Western Territory (color map)   _Facing_     224

The Cumberland Road                                                233

Distribution of Population in 1830                                 235

Texas and the Territory in Dispute                                 282

The Oregon Country and the Disputed Boundary                       285

The Overland Trails                                                287

Distribution of Slaves in Southern States                          323

The Missouri Compromise                                            326

Slave and Free Soil on the Eve of the Civil War                    335

The United States in 1861 (color map)                 _Facing_     345

Railroads of the United States in 1918                             405

The United States in 1870 (color map)                _Facing_      427

The United States in 1912 (color map)                _Facing_      443

American Dominions in the Pacific (color map)        _Facing_      500

The Caribbean Region (color map)                     _Facing_      592

Battle Lines of the Various Years of the World War                 613

Europe in 1919 (color map)                         _Between_   618-619

     THE NATIONS OF THE WEST (popularly called The
     Pioneers) designed by A Stirling Calder and modeled by
     Mr Calder FGR Roth and Leo Lentelli topped the Arch
     of the Setting Sun at the Panama-Pacific Exposition held at
     San Francisco in 1915 Facing the Court of the Universe
     moves a group of men and women typical of those who have
     made our civilization From left to right appear the
     French-Canadian the Alaskan the Latin-American the
     German the Italian the Anglo-American and the American
     Indian squaw and warrior In the place of honor in the
     center of the group standing between the oxen on the tongue
     of the prairie schooner is a figure beautiful and almost
     girlish but strong dignified and womanly the Mother of
     To-morrow Above the group rides the Spirit of Enterprise
     flanked right and left by the Hopes of the Future in the
     person of two boys The group as a whole is beautifully
     symbolic of the westward march of American civilization

[Illustration: _Photograph by Cardinell-Vincent Co San Francisco_

THE NATIONS OF THE WEST]




HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES




PART I THE COLONIAL PERIOD




CHAPTER I

THE GREAT MIGRATION TO AMERICA


The tide of migration that set in toward the shores of North America
during the early years of the seventeenth century was but one phase in
the restless and eternal movement of mankind upon the surface of the
earth The ancient Greeks flung out their colonies in every direction
westward as far as Gaul across the Mediterranean and eastward into
Asia Minor perhaps to the very confines of India The Romans supported
by their armies and their government spread their dominion beyond the
narrow lands of Italy until it stretched from the heather of Scotland to
the sands of Arabia The Teutonic tribes from their home beyond the
Danube and the Rhine poured into the empire of the Caesars and made the
beginnings of modern Europe Of this great sweep of races and empires
the settlement of America was merely a part And it was moreover only
one aspect of the expansion which finally carried the peoples the
institutions and the trade of Europe to the very ends of the earth

In one vital point it must be noted American colonization differed
from that of the ancients The Greeks usually carried with them
affection for the government they left behind and sacred fire from the
altar of the parent city; but thousands of the immigrants who came to
America disliked the state and disowned the church of the mother
country They established compacts of government for themselves and set
up altars of their own They sought not only new soil to till but also
political and religious liberty for themselves and their children


THE AGENCIES OF AMERICAN COLONIZATION

It was no light matter for the English to cross three thousand miles of
water and found homes in the American wilderness at the opening of the
seventeenth century Ships tools and supplies called for huge outlays
of money Stores had to be furnished in quantities sufficient to sustain
the life of the settlers until they could gather harvests of their own
Artisans and laborers of skill and industry had to be induced to risk
the hazards of the new world Soldiers were required for defense and
mariners for the exploration of inland waters Leaders of good judgment
adept in managing men had to be discovered Altogether such an
enterprise demanded capital larger than the ordinary merchant or
gentleman could amass and involved risks more imminent than he dared to
assume Though in later days after initial tests had been made wealthy
proprietors were able to establish colonies on their own account it was
the corporation that furnished the capital and leadership in the
beginning

The Trading Company--English pioneers in exploration found an
instrument for colonization in companies of merchant adventurers which
had long been employed in carrying on commerce with foreign countries
Such a corporation was composed of many persons of different ranks of
society--noblemen merchants and gentlemen--who banded together for a
particular undertaking each contributing a sum of money and sharing in
the profits of the venture It was organized under royal authority; it
received its charter its grant of land and its trading privileges from
the king and carried on its operations under his supervision and
control The charter named all the persons originally included in the
corporation and gave them certain powers in the management of its
affairs including the right to admit new members The company was in
fact a little government set up by the king When the members of the
corporation remained in England as in the case of the Virginia Company
they operated through agents sent to the colony When they came over the
seas themselves and settled in America as in the case of Massachusetts
they became the direct government of the country they possessed The
stockholders in that instance became the voters and the governor the
chief magistrate

[Illustration: JOHN WINTHROP GOVERNOR OF THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY
COMPANY]

Four of the thirteen colonies in America owed their origins to the
trading corporation It was the London Company created by King James I
in 1606 that laid during the following year the foundations of Virginia
at Jamestown It was under the auspices of their West India Company
chartered in 1621 that the Dutch planted the settlements of the New
Netherland in the valley of the Hudson The founders of Massachusetts
were Puritan leaders and men of affairs whom King Charles I incorporated
in 1629 under the title: The governor and company of the Massachusetts
Bay in New England In this case the law did but incorporate a group
drawn together by religious ties We must be knit together as one man
wrote John Winthrop the first Puritan governor in America Far to the
south on the banks of the Delaware River a Swedish commercial company
in 1638 made the beginnings of a settlement christened New Sweden; it
was destined to pass under the rule of the Dutch and finally under the
rule of William Penn as the proprietary colony of Delaware

In a certain sense Georgia may be included among the company
colonies It was however originally conceived by the moving spirit
James Oglethorpe as an asylum for poor men especially those imprisoned
for debt To realize this humane purpose he secured from King George
II in 1732 a royal charter uniting several gentlemen including
himself into one body politic and corporate known as the Trustees
for establishing the colony of Georgia in America In the structure of
their organization and their methods of government the trustees did not
differ materially from the regular companies created for trade and
colonization Though their purposes were benevolent their transactions
had to be under the forms of law and according to the rules of business

The Religious Congregation--A second agency which figured largely in
the settlement of America was the religious brotherhood or
congregation of men and women brought together in the bonds of a common
religious faith By one of the strange fortunes of history this
institution founded in the early days of Christianity proved to be a
potent force in the origin and growth of self-government in a land far
away from Galilee And the multitude of them that believed were of one
heart and of one soul we are told in the Acts describing the Church at
Jerusalem We are knit together as a body in a most sacred covenant of
the Lord  by virtue of which we hold ourselves strictly tied to all
care of each others good and of the whole wrote John Robinson a
leader among the Pilgrims who founded their tiny colony of Plymouth in
1620 The Mayflower Compact so famous in American history was but a
written and signed agreement incorporating the spirit of obedience to
the common good which served as a guide to self-government until
Plymouth was annexed to Massachusetts in 1691

[Illustration: THE ORIGINAL GRANTS]

Three other colonies all of which retained their identity until the eve
of the American Revolution likewise sprang directly from the
congregations of the faithful: Rhode Island Connecticut and New
Hampshire mainly offshoots from Massachusetts They were founded by
small bodies of men and women united in solemn covenants with the
Lord who planted their settlements in the wilderness Not until many a
year after Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson conducted their followers
to the Narragansett country was Rhode Island granted a charter of
incorporation (1663) by the crown Not until long after the congregation
of Thomas Hooker from Newtown blazed the way into the Connecticut River
Valley did the king of England give Connecticut a charter of its own
(1662) and a place among the colonies Half a century elapsed before the
towns laid out beyond the Merrimac River by emigrants from Massachusetts
were formed into the royal province of New Hampshire in 1679

Even when Connecticut was chartered the parchment and sealing wax of
the royal lawyers did but confirm rights and habits of self-government
and obedience to law previously established by the congregations The
towns of Hartford Windsor and Wethersfield had long lived happily
under their Fundamental Orders drawn up by themselves in 1639; so had
the settlers dwelt peacefully at New Haven under their Fundamental
Articles drafted in the same year The pioneers on the Connecticut
shore had no difficulty in agreeing that the Scriptures do hold forth a
perfect rule for the direction and government of all men

The Proprietor--A third and very important colonial agency was the
proprietor or proprietary As the name associated with the word
property implies the proprietor was a person to whom the king
granted property in lands in North America to have hold use and enjoy
for his own benefit and profit with the right to hand the estate down
to his heirs in perpetual succession The proprietor was a rich and
powerful person prepared to furnish or secure the capital collect the
ships supply the stores and assemble the settlers necessary to found
and sustain a plantation beyond the seas Sometimes the proprietor
worked alone Sometimes two or more were associated like partners in the
common undertaking

Five colonies Maryland Pennsylvania New Jersey and the Carolinas
owe their formal origins though not always their first settlements nor
in most cases their prosperity to the proprietary system Maryland
established in 1634 under a Catholic nobleman Lord Baltimore and
blessed with religious toleration by the act of 1649 flourished under
the mild rule of proprietors until it became a state in the American
union New Jersey beginning its career under two proprietors Berkeley
and Carteret in 1664 passed under the direct government of the crown
in 1702 Pennsylvania was in a very large measure the product of the
generous spirit and tireless labors of its first proprietor the leader
of the Friends William Penn to whom it was granted in 1681 and in
whose family it remained until 1776 The two Carolinas were first
organized as one colony in 1663 under the government and patronage of
eight proprietors including Lord Clarendon; but after more than half a
century both became royal provinces governed by the king

[Illustration: WILLIAM PENN PROPRIETOR OF PENNSYLVANIA]


THE COLONIAL PEOPLES

The English--In leadership and origin the thirteen colonies except
New York and Delaware were English During the early days of all save
these two the main if not the sole current of immigration was from
England The colonists came from every walk of life They were men
women and children of all sorts and conditions The major portion
were yeomen or small land owners farm laborers and artisans With
them were merchants and gentlemen who brought their stocks of goods or
their fortunes to the New World Scholars came from Oxford and
Cambridge to preach the gospel or to teach Now and then the son of an
English nobleman left his baronial hall behind and cast his lot with
America The people represented every religious faith--members of the
Established Church of England; Puritans who had labored to reform that
church; Separatists Baptists and Friends who had left it altogether;
and Catholics who clung to the religion of their fathers

New England was almost purely English During the years between 1629 and
1640 the period of arbitrary Stuart government about twenty thousand
Puritans emigrated to America settling in the colonies of the far
North Although minor additions were made from time to time the greater
portion of the New England people sprang from this original stock
Virginia too for a long time drew nearly all her immigrants from
England alone Not until the eve of the Revolution did other
nationalities mainly the Scotch-Irish and Germans rival the English in
numbers

The populations of later English colonies--the Carolinas New York
Pennsylvania and Georgia--while receiving a steady stream of
immigration from England were constantly augmented by wanderers from
the older settlements New York was invaded by Puritans from New England
in such numbers as to cause the Anglican clergymen there to lament that
free thinking spreads almost as fast as the Church North Carolina was
first settled toward the northern border by immigrants from Virginia
Some of the North Carolinians particularly the Quakers came all the
way from New England tarrying in Virginia only long enough to learn how
little they were wanted in that Anglican colony

The Scotch-Irish--Next to the English in numbers and influence were
the Scotch-Irish Presbyterians in belief English in tongue Both
religious and economic reasons sent them across the sea Their Scotch
ancestors in the days of Cromwell had settled in the north of Ireland
whence the native Irish had been driven by the conquerors sword There
the Scotch nourished for many years enjoying in peace their own form of
religion and growing prosperous in the manufacture of fine linen and
woolen cloth Then the blow fell Toward the end of the seventeenth
century their religious worship was put under the ban and the export of
their cloth was forbidden by the English Parliament Within two decades
twenty thousand Scotch-Irish left Ulster alone for America; and all
during the eighteenth century the migration continued to be heavy
Although no exact record was kept it is reckoned that the Scotch-Irish
and the Scotch who came directly from Scotland composed one-sixth of
the entire American population on the eve of the Revolution

[Illustration: SETTLEMENTS OF GERMAN AND SCOTCH-IRISH
IMMIGRANTS]

These newcomers in America made their homes chiefly in New Jersey
Pennsylvania Maryland Virginia and the Carolinas Coming late upon
the scene they found much of the land immediately upon the seaboard
already taken up For this reason most of them became frontier people
settling the interior and upland regions There they cleared the land
laid out their small farms and worked as sturdy yeomen on the soil
hardy industrious and independent in spirit sharing neither the
luxuries of the rich planters nor the easy life of the leisurely
merchants To their agriculture they added woolen and linen
manufactures which flourishing in the supple fingers of their tireless
women made heavy inroads upon the trade of the English merchants in
the colonies Of their labors a poet has sung:

        O willing hands to toil;
    Strong natures tuned to the harvest-song and bound to the kindly soil;
    Bold pioneers for the wilderness defenders in the field

The Germans--Third among the colonists in order of numerical
importance were the Germans From the very beginning they appeared in
colonial records A number of the artisans and carpenters in the first
Jamestown colony were of German descent Peter Minuit the famous
governor of New Motherland was a German from Wesel on the Rhine and
Jacob Leisler leader of a popular uprising against the provincial
administration of New York was a German from Frankfort-on-Main The
wholesale migration of Germans began with the founding of Pennsylvania
Penn was diligent in searching for thrifty farmers to cultivate his
lands and he made a special effort to attract peasants from the Rhine
country A great association known as the Frankfort Company bought
more than twenty thousand acres from him and in 1684 established a
center at Germantown for the distribution of German immigrants In old
New York Rhinebeck-on-the-Hudson became a similar center for
distribution All the way from Maine to Georgia inducements were offered
to the German farmers and in nearly every colony were to be found in
time German settlements In fact the migration became so large that
German princes were frightened at the loss of so many subjects and
England was alarmed by the influx of foreigners into her overseas
dominions Yet nothing could stop the movement By the end of the
colonial period the number of Germans had risen to more than two
hundred thousand

The majority of them were Protestants from the Rhine region and South
Germany Wars religious controversies oppression and poverty drove
them forth to America Though most of them were farmers there were also
among them skilled artisans who contributed to the rapid growth of
industries in Pennsylvania Their iron glass paper and woolen mills
dotted here and there among the thickly settled regions added to the
wealth and independence of the province

[Illustration: _From an old print_

A GLIMPSE OF OLD GERMANTOWN]

Unlike the Scotch-Irish the Germans did not speak the language of the
original colonists or mingle freely with them They kept to themselves
built their own schools founded their own newspapers and published
their own books Their clannish habits often irritated their neighbors
and led to occasional agitations against foreigners However no
serious collisions seem to have occurred; and in the days of the
Revolution German soldiers from Pennsylvania fought in the patriot
armies side by side with soldiers from the English and Scotch-Irish
sections

Other Nationalities--Though the English the Scotch-Irish and the
Germans made up the bulk of the colonial population there were other
racial strains as well varying in numerical importance but contributing
their share to colonial life

From France came the Huguenots fleeing from the decree of the king which
inflicted terrible penalties upon Protestants

From Old Ireland came thousands of native Irish Celtic in race and
Catholic in religion Like their Scotch-Irish neighbors to the north
they revered neither the government nor the church of England imposed
upon them by the sword How many came we do not know but shipping
records of the colonial period show that boatload after boatload left
the southern and eastern shores of Ireland for the New World
Undoubtedly thousands of their passengers were Irish of the native
stock This surmise is well sustained by the constant appearance of
Celtic names in the records of various colonies

[Illustration:_From an old print_

OLD DUTCH FORT AND ENGLISH CHURCH NEAR ALBANY]

The Jews then as ever engaged in their age-long battle for religious
and economic toleration found in the American colonies not complete
liberty but certainly more freedom than they enjoyed in England
France Spain or Portugal The English law did not actually recognize
their right to live in any of the dominions but owing to the easy-going
habits of the Americans they were allowed to filter into the seaboard
towns The treatment they received there varied On one occasion the
mayor and council of New York forbade them to sell by retail and on
another prohibited the exercise of their religious worship Newport
Philadelphia and Charleston were more hospitable and there large
Jewish colonies consisting principally of merchants and their families
flourished in spite of nominal prohibitions of the law

Though the small Swedish colony in Delaware was quickly submerged
beneath the tide of English migration the Dutch in New York continued
to hold their own for more than a hundred years after the English
conquest in 1664 At the end of the colonial period over one-half of the
170000 inhabitants of the province were descendants of the original
Dutch--still distinct enough to give a decided cast to the life and
manners of New York Many of them clung as tenaciously to their mother
tongue as they did to their capacious farmhouses or their Dutch ovens;
but they were slowly losing their identity as the English pressed in
beside them to farm and trade

The melting pot had begun its historic mission


THE PROCESS OF COLONIZATION

Considered from one side colonization whatever the motives of the
emigrants was an economic matter It involved the use of capital to pay
for their passage to sustain them on the voyage and to start them on
the way of production Under this stern economic necessity Puritans
Scotch-Irish Germans and all were alike laid

Immigrants Who Paid Their Own Way--Many of the immigrants to America
in colonial days were capitalists themselves in a small or a large way
and paid their own passage What proportion of the colonists were able
to finance their voyage across the sea is a matter of pure conjecture
Undoubtedly a very considerable number could do so for we can trace the
family fortunes of many early settlers Henry Cabot Lodge is authority
for the statement that the settlers of New England were drawn from the
country gentlemen small farmers and yeomanry of the mother
country Many of the emigrants were men of wealth as the old lists
show and all of them with few exceptions were men of property and
good standing They did not belong to the classes from which emigration
is usually supplied for they all had a stake in the country they left
behind Though it would be interesting to know how accurate this
statement is or how applicable to the other colonies no study has as
yet been made to gratify that interest For the present it is an
unsolved problem just how many of the colonists were able to bear the
cost of their own transfer to the New World

Indentured Servants--That at least tens of thousands of immigrants
were unable to pay for their passage is established beyond the shadow of
a doubt by the shipping records that have come down to us The great
barrier in the way of the poor who wanted to go to America was the cost
of the sea voyage To overcome this difficulty a plan was worked out
whereby shipowners and other persons of means furnished the passage
money to immigrants in return for their promise or bond to work for a
term of years to repay the sum advanced This system was called
indentured servitude

It is probable that the number of bond servants exceeded the original
twenty thousand Puritans the yeomen the Virginia gentlemen and the
Huguenots combined All the way down the coast from Massachusetts to
Georgia were to be found in the fields kitchens and workshops men
women and children serving out terms of bondage generally ranging from
five to seven years In the proprietary colonies the proportion of bond
servants was very high The Baltimores Penns Carterets and other
promoters anxiously sought for workers of every nationality to till
their fields for land without labor was worth no more than land in the
moon Hence the gates of the proprietary colonies were flung wide open
Every inducement was offered to immigrants in the form of cheap land
and special efforts were made to increase the population by importing
servants In Pennsylvania it was not uncommon to find a master with
fifty bond servants on his estate It has been estimated that two-thirds
of all the immigrants into Pennsylvania between the opening of the
eighteenth century and the outbreak of the Revolution were in bondage
In the other Middle colonies the number was doubtless not so large; but
it formed a considerable part of the population

The story of this traffic in white servants is one of the most striking
things in the history of labor Bondmen differed from the serfs of the
feudal age in that they were not bound to the soil but to the master
They likewise differed from the negro slaves in that their servitude had
a time limit Still they were subject to many special disabilities It
was for instance a common practice to impose on them penalties far
heavier than were imposed upon freemen for the same offense A free
citizen of Pennsylvania who indulged in horse racing and gambling was
let off with a fine; a white servant guilty of the same unlawful conduct
was whipped at the post and fined as well

The ordinary life of the white servant was also severely restricted A
bondman could not marry without his masters consent; nor engage in
trade; nor refuse work assigned to him For an attempt to escape or
indeed for any infraction of the law the term of service was extended
The condition of white bondmen in Virginia according to Lodge was
little better than that of slaves Loose indentures and harsh laws put
them at the mercy of their masters It would not be unfair to add that
such was their lot in all other colonies Their fate depended upon the
temper of their masters

Cruel as was the system in many ways it gave thousands of people in the
Old World a chance to reach the New--an opportunity to wrestle with fate
for freedom and a home of their own When their weary years of servitude
were over if they survived they might obtain land of their own or
settle as free mechanics in the towns For many a bondman the gamble
proved to be a losing venture because he found himself unable to rise
out of the state of poverty and dependence into which his servitude
carried him For thousands on the contrary bondage proved to be a real
avenue to freedom and prosperity Some of the best citizens of America
have the blood of indentured servants in their veins

The Transported--Involuntary Servitude--In their anxiety to secure
settlers the companies and proprietors having colonies in America
either resorted to or connived at the practice of kidnapping men women
and children from the streets of English cities In 1680 it was
officially estimated that ten thousand persons were spirited away to
America Many of the victims of the practice were young children for
the traffic in them was highly profitable Orphans and dependents were
sometimes disposed of in America by relatives unwilling to support them
In a single year 1627 about fifteen hundred children were shipped to
Virginia

In this gruesome business there lurked many tragedies and very few
romances Parents were separated from their children and husbands from
their wives Hundreds of skilled artisans--carpenters smiths and
weavers--utterly disappeared as if swallowed up by death A few thus
dragged off to the New World to be sold into servitude for a term of
five or seven years later became prosperous and returned home with
fortunes In one case a young man who was forcibly carried over the sea
lived to make his way back to England and establish his claim to a
peerage

Akin to the kidnapped at least in economic position were convicts
deported to the colonies for life in lieu of fines and imprisonment The
Americans protested vigorously but ineffectually against this practice
Indeed they exaggerated its evils for many of the criminals were
only mild offenders against unduly harsh and cruel laws A peasant
caught shooting a rabbit on a lords estate or a luckless servant girl
who purloined a pocket handkerchief was branded as a criminal along with
sturdy thieves and incorrigible rascals Other transported offenders
were political criminals; that is persons who criticized or opposed
the government This class included now Irish who revolted against
British rule in Ireland; now Cavaliers who championed the king against
the Puritan revolutionists; Puritans in turn dispatched after the
monarchy was restored; and Scotch and English subjects in general who
joined in political uprisings against the king

The African Slaves--Rivaling in numbers in the course of time the
indentured servants and whites carried to America against their will
were the African negroes brought to America and sold into slavery When
this form of bondage was first introduced into Virginia in 1619 it was
looked upon as a temporary necessity to be discarded with the increase
of the white population Moreover it does not appear that those planters
who first bought negroes at the auction block intended to establish a
system of permanent bondage Only by a slow process did chattel slavery
take firm root and become recognized as the leading source of the labor
supply In 1650 thirty years after the introduction of slavery there
were only three hundred Africans in Virginia

The great increase in later years was due in no small measure to the
inordinate zeal for profits that seized slave traders both in Old and in
New England Finding it relatively easy to secure negroes in Africa
they crowded the Southern ports with their vessels The English Royal
African Company sent to America annually between 1713 and 1743 from five
to ten thousand slaves The ship owners of New England were not far
behind their English brethren in pushing this extraordinary traffic

As the proportion of the negroes to the free white population steadily
rose and as whole sections were overrun with slaves and slave traders
the Southern colonies grew alarmed In 1710 Virginia sought to curtail
the importation by placing a duty of $5 on each slave This effort was
futile for the royal governor promptly vetoed it From time to time
similar bills were passed only to meet with royal disapproval South
Carolina in 1760 absolutely prohibited importation; but the measure
was killed by the British crown As late as 1772 Virginia not daunted
by a century of rebuffs sent to George III a petition in this vein:
The importation of slaves into the colonies from the coast of Africa
hath long been considered as a trade of great inhumanity and under its
present encouragement we have too much reason to fear will endanger
the very existence of Your Majestys American dominions Deeply
impressed with these sentiments we most humbly beseech Your Majesty to
remove all those restraints on Your Majestys governors of this colony
which inhibit their assenting to such laws as might check so very
pernicious a commerce

All such protests were without avail The negro population grew by leaps
and bounds until on the eve of the Revolution it amounted to more than
half a million In five states--Maryland Virginia the two Carolinas
and Georgia--the slaves nearly equalled or actually exceeded the whites
in number In South Carolina they formed almost two-thirds of the
population Even in the Middle colonies of Delaware and Pennsylvania
about one-fifth of the inhabitants were from Africa To the North the
proportion of slaves steadily diminished although chattel servitude was
on the same legal footing as in the South In New York approximately one
in six and in New England one in fifty were negroes including a few
freedmen

The climate the soil the commerce and the industry of the North were
all unfavorable to the growth of a servile population Still slavery
though sectional was a part of the national system of economy Northern
ships carried slaves to the Southern colonies and the produce of the
plantations to Europe If the Northern states will consult their
interest they will not oppose the increase in slaves which will
increase the commodities of which they will become the carriers said
John Rutledge of South Carolina in the convention which framed the
Constitution of the United States What enriches a part enriches the
whole and the states are the best judges of their particular interest
responded Oliver Ellsworth the distinguished spokesman of Connecticut

References

E Charming _History of the United States_ Vols I and II

JA Doyle _The English Colonies in America_ (5 vols)

J Fiske _Old Virginia and Her Neighbors_ (2 vols)

AB Faust _The German Element in the United States_ (2 vols)

HJ Ford _The Scotch-Irish in America_

L Tyler _England in America_ (American Nation Series)

R Usher _The Pilgrims and Their History_


Questions

1 America has been called a nation of immigrants Explain why

2 Why were individuals unable to go alone to America in the beginning?
What agencies made colonization possible? Discuss each of them

3 Make a table of the colonies showing the methods employed in their
settlement

4 Why were capital and leadership so very important in early
colonization?

5 What is meant by the melting pot? What nationalities were
represented among the early colonists?

6 Compare the way immigrants come to-day with the way they came in
colonial times

7 Contrast indentured servitude with slavery and serfdom

8 Account for the anxiety of companies and proprietors to secure
colonists

9 What forces favored the heavy importation of slaves?

10 In what way did the North derive advantages from slavery?


Research Topics

The Chartered Company--Compare the first and third charters of
Virginia in Macdonald _Documentary Source Book of American History_
1606-1898 pp 1-14 Analyze the first and second Massachusetts charters
in Macdonald pp 22-84 Special reference: WAS Hewins _English
Trading Companies_

Congregations and Compacts for Self-government--A study of the
Mayflower Compact the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut and the
Fundamental Articles of New Haven in Macdonald pp 19 36 39
Reference: Charles Borgeaud _Rise of Modern Democracy_ and CS
Lobingier _The Peoples Law_ Chaps I-VII

The Proprietary System--Analysis of Penns charter of 1681 in
Macdonald p 80 Reference: Lodge _Short History of the English
Colonies in America_ p 211

Studies of Individual Colonies--Review of outstanding events in
history of each colony using Elson _History of the United States_ pp
55-159 as the basis

Biographical Studies--John Smith John Winthrop William Penn Lord
Baltimore William Bradford Roger Williams Anne Hutchinson Thomas
Hooker and Peter Stuyvesant using any good encyclopedia

Indentured Servitude--In Virginia Lodge _Short History_ pp 69-72;
in Pennsylvania pp 242-244 Contemporary account in Callender
_Economic History of the United States_ pp 44-51 Special reference:
Karl Geiser _Redemptioners and Indentured Servants_ (Yale Review X
No 2 Supplement)

Slavery--In Virginia Lodge _Short History_ pp 67-69; in the
Northern colonies pp 241 275 322 408 442

The People of the Colonies--Virginia Lodge _Short History_ pp
67-73; New England pp 406-409 441-450; Pennsylvania pp 227-229
240-250; New York pp 312-313 322-335




CHAPTER II

COLONIAL AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE

THE LAND AND THE WESTWARD MOVEMENT


The Significance of Land Tenure--The way in which land may be
acquired held divided among heirs and bought and sold exercises a
deep influence on the life and culture of a people The feudal and
aristocratic societies of Europe were founded on a system of landlordism
which was characterized by two distinct features In the first place
the land was nearly all held in great estates each owned by a single
proprietor In the second place every estate was kept intact under the
law of primogeniture which at the death of a lord transferred all his
landed property to his eldest son This prevented the subdivision of
estates and the growth of a large body of small farmers or freeholders
owning their own land It made a form of tenantry or servitude
inevitable for the mass of those who labored on the land It also
enabled the landlords to maintain themselves in power as a governing
class and kept the tenants and laborers subject to their economic and
political control If land tenure was so significant in Europe it was
equally important in the development of America where practically all
the first immigrants were forced by circumstances to derive their
livelihood from the soil

Experiments in Common Tillage--In the New World with its broad
extent of land awaiting the white mans plow it was impossible to
introduce in its entirety and over the whole area the system of lords
and tenants that existed across the sea So it happened that almost
every kind of experiment in land tenure from communism to feudalism
was tried In the early days of the Jamestown colony the land though
owned by the London Company was tilled in common by the settlers No
man had a separate plot of his own The motto of the community was:
Labor and share alike All were supposed to work in the fields and
receive an equal share of the produce At Plymouth the Pilgrims
attempted a similar experiment laying out the fields in common and
distributing the joint produce of their labor with rough equality among
the workers

In both colonies the communistic experiments were failures Angry at the
lazy men in Jamestown who idled their time away and yet expected regular
meals Captain John Smith issued a manifesto: Everyone that gathereth
not every day as much as I do the next day shall be set beyond the
river and forever banished from the fort and live there or starve Even
this terrible threat did not bring a change in production Not until
each man was given a plot of his own to till not until each gathered
the fruits of his own labor did the colony prosper In Plymouth where
the communal experiment lasted for five years the results were similar
to those in Virginia and the system was given up for one of separate
fields in which every person could set corn for his own particular
Some other New England towns refusing to profit by the experience of
their Plymouth neighbor also made excursions into common ownership and
labor only to abandon the idea and go in for individual ownership of
the land By degrees it was seen that even the Lords people could not
carry the complicated communist legislation into perfect and wholesome
practice

Feudal Elements in the Colonies--Quit Rents Manors and
Plantations--At the other end of the scale were the feudal elements of
land tenure found in the proprietary colonies in the seaboard regions
of the South and to some extent in New York The proprietor was in fact
a powerful feudal lord owning land granted to him by royal charter He
could retain any part of it for his personal use or dispose of it all in
large or small lots While he generally kept for himself an estate of
baronial proportions it was impossible for him to manage directly any
considerable part of the land in his dominion Consequently he either
sold it in parcels for lump sums or granted it to individuals on
condition that they make to him an annual payment in money known as
quit rent In Maryland the proprietor sometimes collected as high as
$9000 (equal to about $500000 to-day) in a single year from this
source In Pennsylvania the quit rents brought a handsome annual
tribute into the exchequer of the Penn family In the royal provinces
the king of England claimed all revenues collected in this form from the
land a sum amounting to $19000 at the time of the Revolution The quit
rent--really a feudal payment from freeholders--was thus a material
source of income for the crown as well as for the proprietors Wherever
it was laid however it proved to be a burden a source of constant
irritation; and it became a formidable item in the long list of
grievances which led to the American Revolution

Something still more like the feudal system of the Old World appeared in
the numerous manors or the huge landed estates granted by the crown the
companies or the proprietors In the colony of Maryland alone there
were sixty manors of three thousand acres each owned by wealthy men and
tilled by tenants holding small plots under certain restrictions of
tenure In New York also there were many manors of wide extent most of
which originated in the days of the Dutch West India Company when
extensive concessions were made to patroons to induce them to bring over
settlers The Van Rensselaer the Van Cortlandt and the Livingston
manors were so large and populous that each was entitled to send a
representative to the provincial legislature The tenants on the New
York manors were in somewhat the same position as serfs on old European
estates They were bound to pay the owner a rent in money and kind; they
ground their grain at his mill; and they were subject to his judicial
power because he held court and meted out justice in some instances
extending to capital punishment

The manors of New York or Maryland were however of slight consequence
as compared with the vast plantations of the Southern seaboard--huge
estates far wider in expanse than many a European barony and tilled by
slaves more servile than any feudal tenants It must not be forgotten
that this system of land tenure became the dominant feature of a large
section and gave a decided bent to the economic and political life of
America

[Illustration: SOUTHERN PLANTATION MANSION]

The Small Freehold--In the upland regions of the South however and
throughout most of the North the drift was against all forms of
servitude and tenantry and in the direction of the freehold; that is
the small farm owned outright and tilled by the possessor and his
family This was favored by natural circumstances and the spirit of the
immigrants For one thing the abundance of land and the scarcity of
labor made it impossible for the companies the proprietors or the
crown to develop over the whole continent a network of vast estates In
many sections particularly in New England the climate the stony soil
the hills and the narrow valleys conspired to keep the farms within a
moderate compass For another thing the English Scotch-Irish and
German peasants even if they had been tenants in the Old World did not
propose to accept permanent dependency of any kind in the New If they
could not get freeholds they would not settle at all; thus they forced
proprietors and companies to bid for their enterprise by selling land in
small lots So it happened that the freehold of modest proportions
became the cherished unit of American farmers The people who tilled the
farms were drawn from every quarter of western Europe; but the freehold
system gave a uniform cast to their economic and social life in America

[Illustration: _From an old print_

A NEW ENGLAND FARMHOUSE]

Social Effects of Land Tenure--Land tenure and the process of western
settlement thus developed two distinct types of people engaged in the
same pursuit--agriculture They had a common tie in that they both
cultivated the soil and possessed the local interest and independence
which arise from that occupation Their methods and their culture
however differed widely

The Southern planter on his broad acres tilled by slaves resembled the
English landlord on his estates more than he did the colonial farmer who
labored with his own hands in the fields and forests He sold his rice
and tobacco in large amounts directly to English factors who took his
entire crop in exchange for goods and cash His fine clothes
silverware china and cutlery he bought in English markets Loving the
ripe old culture of the mother country he often sent his sons to Oxford
or Cambridge for their education In short he depended very largely for
his prosperity and his enjoyment of life upon close relations with the
Old World He did not even need market towns in which to buy native
goods for they were made on his own plantation by his own artisans who
were usually gifted slaves

The economic condition of the small farmer was totally different His
crops were not big enough to warrant direct connection with English
factors or the personal maintenance of a corps of artisans He needed
local markets and they sprang up to meet the need Smiths hatters
weavers wagon-makers and potters at neighboring towns supplied him
with the rough products of their native skill The finer goods bought
by the rich planter in England the small farmer ordinarily could not
buy His wants were restricted to staples like tea and sugar and
between him and the European market stood the merchant His community
was therefore more self-sufficient than the seaboard line of great
plantations It was more isolated more provincial more independent
more American The planter faced the Old East The farmer faced the New
West

The Westward Movement--Yeoman and planter nevertheless were alike in
one respect Their land hunger was never appeased Each had the eye of
an expert for new and fertile soil; and so north and south as soon as
a foothold was secured on the Atlantic coast the current of migration
set in westward creeping through forests across rivers and over
mountains Many of the later immigrants in their search for cheap
lands were compelled to go to the border; but in a large part the path
breakers to the West were native Americans of the second and third
generations Explorers fired by curiosity and the lure of the
mysterious unknown and hunters fur traders and squatters following
their own sweet wills blazed the trail opening paths and sending back
stories of the new regions they traversed Then came the regular
settlers with lawful titles to the lands they had purchased sometimes
singly and sometimes in companies

In Massachusetts the westward movement is recorded in the founding of
Springfield in 1636 and Great Barrington in 1725 By the opening of the
eighteenth century the pioneers of Connecticut had pushed north and west
until their outpost towns adjoined the Hudson Valley settlements In New
York the inland movement was directed by the Hudson River to Albany
and from that old Dutch center it radiated in every direction
particularly westward through the Mohawk Valley New Jersey was early
filled to its borders the beginnings of the present city of New
Brunswick being made in 1681 and those of Trenton in 1685 In
Pennsylvania as in New York the waterways determined the main lines of
advance Pioneers pushing up through the valley of the Schuylkill
spread over the fertile lands of Berks and Lancaster counties laying
out Reading in 1748 Another current of migration was directed by the
Susquehanna and in 1726 the first farmhouse was built on the bank
where Harrisburg was later founded Along the southern tier of counties
a thin line of settlements stretched westward to Pittsburgh reaching
the upper waters of the Ohio while the colony was still under the Penn
family

In the South the westward march was equally swift The seaboard was
quickly occupied by large planters and their slaves engaged in the
cultivation of tobacco and rice The Piedmont Plateau lying back from
the coast all the way from Maryland to Georgia was fed by two streams
of migration one westward from the sea and the other southward from the
other colonies--Germans from Pennsylvania and Scotch-Irish furnishing
the main supply By 1770 tide-water Virginia was full to overflowing
and the back country of the Blue Ridge and the Shenandoah was fully
occupied Even the mountain valleys  were claimed by sturdy pioneers
Before the Declaration of Independence the oncoming tide of
home-seekers had reached the crest of the Alleghanies

[Illustration: DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION 1790]

Beyond the mountains pioneers had already ventured harbingers of an
invasion that was about to break in upon Kentucky and Tennessee As
early as 1769 that mighty Nimrod Daniel Boone curious to hunt
buffaloes of which he had heard weird reports passed through the
Cumberland Gap and brought back news of a wonderful country awaiting the
plow A hint was sufficient Singly in pairs and in groups settlers
followed the trail he had blazed A great land corporation the
Transylvania Company emulating the merchant adventurers of earlier
times secured a huge grant of territory and sought profits in quit
rents from lands sold to farmers By the outbreak of the Revolution
there were several hundred people in the Kentucky region Like the older
colonists they did not relish quit rents and their opposition wrecked
the Transylvania Company They even carried their protests into the
Continental Congress in 1776 for by that time they were our embryo
fourteenth colony


INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Though the labor of the colonists was mainly spent in farming there was
a steady growth in industrial and commercial pursuits Most of the
staple industries of to-day not omitting iron and textiles have their
beginnings in colonial times Manufacturing and trade soon gave rise to
towns which enjoyed an importance all out of proportion to their
numbers The great centers of commerce and finance on the seaboard
originated in the days when the king of England was lord of these
dominions

[Illustration: DOMESTIC INDUSTRY: DIPPING TALLOW CANDLES]

Textile Manufacture as a Domestic Industry--Colonial women in
addition to sharing every hardship of pioneering often the heavy labor
of the open field developed in the course of time a national industry
which was almost exclusively their own Wool and flax were raised in
abundance in the North and South Every farm house says Coman the
economic historian was a workshop where the women spun and wove the
serges kerseys and linsey-woolseys which served for the common wear
By the close of the seventeenth century New England manufactured cloth
in sufficient quantities to export it to the Southern colonies and to
the West Indies As the industry developed mills were erected for the
more difficult process of dyeing weaving and fulling but carding and
spinning continued to be done in the home The Dutch of New Netherland
the Swedes of Delaware and the Scotch-Irish of the interior were not
one whit behind their Yankee neighbors

The importance of this enterprise to British economic life can hardly be
overestimated For many a century the English had employed their fine
woolen cloth as the chief staple in a lucrative foreign trade and the
government had come to look upon it as an object of special interest and
protection When the colonies were established both merchants and
statesmen naturally expected to maintain a monopoly of increasing value;
but before long the Americans instead of buying cloth especially of
the coarser varieties were making it to sell In the place of
customers here were rivals In the place of helpless reliance upon
English markets here was the germ of economic independence

If British merchants had not discovered it in the ordinary course of
trade observant officers in the provinces would have conveyed the news
to them Even in the early years of the eighteenth century the royal
governor of New York wrote of the industrious Americans to his home
government: The consequence will be that if they can clothe themselves
once not only comfortably but handsomely too without the help of
England they who already are not very fond of submitting to government
will soon think of putting in execution designs they have long harboured
in their breasts This will not seem strange when you consider what sort
of people this country is inhabited by

The Iron Industry--Almost equally widespread was the art of iron
working--one of the earliest and most picturesque of colonial
industries Lynn Massachusetts had a forge and skilled artisans within
fifteen years after the founding of Boston The smelting of iron began
at New London and New Haven about 1658; in Litchfield county
Connecticut a few years later; at Great Barrington Massachusetts in
1731; and near by at Lenox some thirty years after that New Jersey had
iron works at Shrewsbury within ten years after the founding of the
colony in 1665 Iron forges appeared in the valleys of the Delaware and
the Susquehanna early in the following century and iron masters then
laid the foundations of fortunes in a region destined to become one of
the great iron centers of the world Virginia began iron working in the
year that saw the introduction of slavery Although the industry soon
lapsed it was renewed and flourished in the eighteenth century
Governor Spotswood was called the Tubal Cain of the Old Dominion
because he placed the industry on a firm foundation Indeed it seems
that every colony except Georgia had its iron foundry Nails wire
metallic ware chains anchors bar and pig iron were made in large
quantities; and Great Britain by an act in 1750 encouraged the
colonists to export rough iron to the British Islands

Shipbuilding--Of all the specialized industries in the colonies
shipbuilding was the most important The abundance of fir for masts oak
for timbers and boards pitch for tar and turpentine and hemp for rope
made the way of the shipbuilder easy Early in the seventeenth century a
ship was built at New Amsterdam and by the middle of that century
shipyards were scattered along the New England coast at Newburyport
Salem New Bedford Newport Providence New London and New Haven
Yards at Albany and Poughkeepsie in New York built ships for the trade
of that colony with England and the Indies Wilmington and Philadelphia
soon entered the race and outdistanced New York though unable to equal
the pace set by New England While Maryland Virginia and South
Carolina also built ships Southern interest was mainly confined to the
lucrative business of producing ship materials: fir cedar hemp and
tar

Fishing--The greatest single economic resource of New England outside
of agriculture was the fisheries This industry started by hardy
sailors from Europe long before the landing of the Pilgrims flourished
under the indomitable seamanship of the Puritans who labored with the
net and the harpoon in almost every quarter of the Atlantic Look
exclaimed Edmund Burke in the House of Commons at the manner in
which the people of New England have of late carried on the whale
fishery Whilst we follow them among the tumbling mountains of ice and
behold them penetrating into the deepest frozen recesses of Hudsons Bay
and Daviss Straits while we are looking for them beneath the arctic
circle we hear that they have pierced into the opposite region of polar
cold that they are at the antipodes and engaged under the frozen
serpent of the south Nor is the equinoctial heat more discouraging
to them than the accumulated winter of both poles We know that whilst
some of them draw the line and strike the harpoon on the coast of
Africa others run the longitude and pursue their gigantic game along
the coast of Brazil No sea but what is vexed by their fisheries No
climate that is not witness to their toils Neither the perseverance of
Holland nor the activity of France nor the dexterous and firm sagacity
of English enterprise ever carried this most perilous mode of hard
industry to the extent to which it has been pushed by this recent
people

The influence of the business was widespread A large and lucrative
European trade was built upon it The better quality of the fish caught
for food was sold in the markets of Spain Portugal and Italy or
exchanged for salt lemons and raisins for the American market The
lower grades of fish were carried to the West Indies for slave
consumption and in part traded for sugar and molasses which furnished
the raw materials for the thriving rum industry of New England These
activities in turn stimulated shipbuilding steadily enlarging the
demand for fishing and merchant craft of every kind and thus keeping the
shipwrights calkers rope makers and other artisans of the seaport
towns rushed with work They also increased trade with the mother
country for out of the cash collected in the fish markets of Europe and
the West Indies the colonists paid for English manufactures So an
ever-widening circle of American enterprise centered around this single
industry the nursery of seamanship and the maritime spirit

Oceanic Commerce and American Merchants--All through the eighteenth
century the commerce of the American colonies spread in every direction
until it rivaled in the number of people employed the capital engaged
and the profits gleaned the commerce of European nations A modern
historian has said: The enterprising merchants of New England developed
a network of trade routes that covered well-nigh half the world This
commerce destined to be of such significance in the conflict with the
mother country presented broadly speaking two aspects

On the one side it involved the export of raw materials and
agricultural produce The Southern colonies produced for shipping
tobacco rice tar pitch and pine; the Middle colonies grain flour
furs lumber and salt pork; New England fish flour rum furs shoes
and small articles of manufacture The variety of products was in fact
astounding A sarcastic writer while sneering at the idea of an
American union once remarked of colonial trade: What sort of dish will
you make? New England will throw in fish and onions The middle states
flax-seed and flour Maryland and Virginia will add tobacco North
Carolina pitch tar and turpentine South Carolina rice and indigo
and Georgia will sprinkle the whole composition with sawdust Such an
absurd jumble will you make if you attempt to form a union among such
discordant materials as the thirteen British provinces

On the other side American commerce involved the import trade
consisting principally of English and continental manufactures tea and
India goods Sugar and molasses brought from the West Indies
supplied the flourishing distilleries of Massachusetts Rhode Island
and Connecticut The carriage of slaves from Africa to the Southern
colonies engaged hundreds of New Englands sailors and thousands of
pounds of her capital

The disposition of imported goods in the colonies though in part
controlled by English factors located in America employed also a large
and important body of American merchants like the Willings and Morrises
of Philadelphia; the Amorys Hancocks and Faneuils of Boston; and the
Livingstons and Lows of New York In their zeal and enterprise they
were worthy rivals of their English competitors so celebrated for
world-wide commercial operations Though fully aware of the advantages
they enjoyed in British markets and under the protection of the British
navy the American merchants were high-spirited and mettlesome ready to
contend with royal officers in order to shield American interests
against outside interference

[Illustration: THE DUTCH WEST INDIA WAREHOUSE IN NEW AMSTERDAM
(NEW YORK CITY)]

Measured against the immense business of modern times colonial commerce
seems perhaps trivial That however is not the test of its
significance It must be considered in relation to the growth of English
colonial trade in its entirety--a relation which can be shown by a few
startling figures The whole export trade of England including that to
the colonies was in 1704 $6509000 On the eve of the American
Revolution namely in 1772 English exports to the American colonies
alone amounted to $6024000; in other words almost as much as the
whole foreign business of England two generations before At the first
date colonial trade was but one-twelfth of the English export business;
at the second date it was considerably more than one-third In 1704
Pennsylvania bought in English markets goods to the value of $11459; in
1772 the purchases of the same colony amounted to $507909 In short
Pennsylvania imports increased fifty times within sixty-eight years
amounting in 1772 to almost the entire export trade of England to the
colonies at the opening of the century The American colonies were
indeed a great source of wealth to English merchants

Intercolonial Commerce--Although the bad roads of colonial times made
overland transportation difficult and costly the many rivers and
harbors along the coast favored a lively water-borne trade among the
colonies The Connecticut Hudson Delaware and Susquehanna rivers in
the North and the many smaller rivers in the South made it possible for
goods to be brought from and carried to the interior regions in little
sailing vessels with comparative ease Sloops laden with manufactures
domestic and foreign collected at some city like Providence New York
or Philadelphia skirted the coasts visited small ports and sailed up
the navigable rivers to trade with local merchants who had for exchange
the raw materials which they had gathered in from neighboring farms
Larger ships carried the grain live stock cloth and hardware of New
England to the Southern colonies where they were traded for tobacco
leather tar and ship timber From the harbors along the Connecticut
shores there were frequent sailings down through Long Island Sound to
Maryland Virginia and the distant Carolinas

Growth of Towns--In connection with this thriving trade and industry
there grew up along the coast a number of prosperous commercial centers
which were soon reckoned among the first commercial towns of the whole
British empire comparing favorably in numbers and wealth with such
ports as Liverpool and Bristol The statistical records of that time are
mainly guesses; but we know that Philadelphia stood first in size among
these towns Serving as the port of entry for Pennsylvania Delaware
and western Jersey it had drawn within its borders just before the
Revolution about 25000 inhabitants Boston was second in rank with
somewhat more than 20000 people New York the commercial capital of
Connecticut and old East Jersey was slightly smaller than Boston but
growing at a steady rate The fourth town in size was Charleston South
Carolina with about 10000 inhabitants Newport in Rhode Island a
center of rum manufacture and shipping stood fifth with a population
of about 7000 Baltimore and Norfolk were counted as considerable
towns In the interior Hartford in Connecticut Lancaster and York in
Pennsylvania and Albany in New York with growing populations and
increasing trade gave prophecy of an urban America away from the
seaboard The other towns were straggling villages Williamsburg
Virginia for example had about two hundred houses in which dwelt a
dozen families of the gentry and a few score of tradesmen Inland county
seats often consisted of nothing more than a log courthouse a prison
and one wretched inn to house judges lawyers and litigants during the
sessions of the court

The leading towns exercised an influence on colonial opinion all out of
proportion to their population They were the centers of wealth for one
thing; of the press and political activity for another Merchants and
artisans could readily take concerted action on public questions arising
from their commercial operations The towns were also centers for news
gossip religious controversy and political discussion In the market
places the farmers from the countryside learned of British policies and
laws and so mingling with the townsmen were drawn into the main
currents of opinion which set in toward colonial nationalism and
independence


References

J Bishop _History of American Manufactures_ (2 vols)

EL Bogart _Economic History of the United States_

PA Bruce _Economic History of Virginia_ (2 vols)

E Semple _American History and Its Geographical Conditions_

W Weeden _Economic and Social History of New England_ (2 vols)


Questions

1 Is land in your community parceled out into small farms? Contrast the
system in your community with the feudal system of land tenure

2 Are any things owned and used in common in your community? Why did
common tillage fail in colonial times?

3 Describe the elements akin to feudalism which were introduced in the
colonies

4 Explain the success of freehold tillage

5 Compare the life of the planter with that of the farmer

6 How far had the western frontier advanced by 1776?

7 What colonial industry was mainly developed by women? Why was it very
important both to the Americans and to the English?

8 What were the centers for iron working? Ship building?

9 Explain how the fisheries affected many branches of trade and
industry

10 Show how American trade formed a vital part of English business

11 How was interstate commerce mainly carried on?

12 What were the leading towns? Did they compare in importance with
British towns of the same period?


Research Topics

Land Tenure--Coman _Industrial History_ (rev ed) pp 32-38
Special reference: Bruce _Economic History of Virginia_ Vol I Chap
VIII

Tobacco Planting in Virginia--Callender _Economic History of the
United States_ pp 22-28

Colonial Agriculture--Coman pp 48-63 Callender pp 69-74
Reference: JRH Moore _Industrial History of the American People_
pp 131-162

Colonial Manufactures--Coman pp 63-73 Callender pp 29-44
Special reference: Weeden _Economic and Social History of New England_

Colonial Commerce--Coman pp 73-85 Callender pp 51-63 78-84
Moore pp 163-208 Lodge _Short History of the English Colonies_ pp
409-412 229-231 312-314




Chapter III

SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PROGRESS


Colonial life crowded as it was with hard and unremitting toil left
scant leisure for the cultivation of the arts and sciences There was
little money in private purses or public treasuries to be dedicated to
schools libraries and museums Few there were with time to read long
and widely and fewer still who could devote their lives to things that
delight the eye and the mind And yet poor and meager as the
intellectual life of the colonists may seem by way of comparison heroic
efforts were made in every community to lift the people above the plane
of mere existence After the first clearings were opened in the forests
those efforts were redoubled and with lengthening years told upon the
thought and spirit of the land The appearance during the struggle with
England of an extraordinary group of leaders familiar with history
political philosophy and the arts of war government and diplomacy
itself bore eloquent testimony to the high quality of the American
intellect No one not even the most critical can run through the
writings of distinguished Americans scattered from Massachusetts to
Georgia--the Adamses Ellsworth the Morrises the Livingstons
Hamilton Franklin Washington Madison Marshall Henry the Randolphs
and the Pinckneys--without coming to the conclusion that there was
something in American colonial life which fostered minds of depth and
power Women surmounted even greater difficulties than the men in the
process of self-education and their keen interest in public issues is
evident in many a record like the _Letters_ of Mrs John Adams to her
husband during the Revolution; the writings of Mrs Mercy Otis Warren
the sister of James Otis who measured her pen with the British
propagandists; and the patriot newspapers founded and managed by women


THE LEADERSHIP OF THE CHURCHES

In the intellectual life of America the churches assumed a role of high
importance There were abundant reasons for this In many of the
colonies--Maryland Pennsylvania and New England--the religious impulse
had been one of the impelling motives in stimulating immigration In all
the colonies the clergy at least in the beginning formed the only
class with any leisure to devote to matters of the spirit They preached
on Sundays and taught school on week days They led in the discussion of
local problems and in the formation of political opinion so much of
which was concerned with the relation between church and state They
wrote books and pamphlets They filled most of the chairs in the
colleges; under clerical guidance intellectual and spiritual the
Americans received their formal education In several of the provinces
the Anglican Church was established by law In New England the Puritans
were supreme notwithstanding the efforts of the crown to overbear their
authority In the Middle colonies particularly the multiplication of
sects made the dominance of any single denomination impossible; and in
all of them there was a growing diversity of faith which promised in
time a separation of church and state and freedom of opinion

The Church of England--Virginia was the stronghold of the English
system of church and state The Anglican faith and worship were
prescribed by law sustained by taxes imposed on all and favored by the
governor the provincial councilors and the richest planters The
Established Church says Lodge was one of the appendages of the
Virginia aristocracy They controlled the vestries and the ministers
and the parish church stood not infrequently on the estate of the
planter who built and managed it As in England Catholics and
Protestant Dissenters were at first laid under heavy disabilities Only
slowly and on sufferance were they admitted to the province; but when
once they were even covertly tolerated they pressed steadily in until
by the Revolution they outnumbered the adherents of the established
order

The Church was also sanctioned by law and supported by taxes in the
Carolinas after 1704 and in Georgia after that colony passed directly
under the crown in 1754--this in spite of the fact that the majority of
the inhabitants were Dissenters Against the protests of the Catholics
it was likewise established in Maryland In New York too
notwithstanding the resistance of the Dutch the Established Church was
fostered by the provincial officials and the Anglicans embracing about
one-fifteenth of the population exerted an influence all out of
proportion to their numbers

Many factors helped to enhance the power of the English Church in the
colonies It was supported by the British government and the official
class sent out to the provinces Its bishops and archbishops in England
were appointed by the king and its faith and service were set forth by
acts of Parliament Having its seat of power in the English monarchy it
could hold its clergy and missionaries loyal to the crown and so
counteract to some extent the independent spirit that was growing up in
America The Church always a strong bulwark of the state therefore had
a political role to play here as in England Able bishops and far-seeing
leaders firmly grasped this fact about the middle of the eighteenth
century and redoubled their efforts to augment the influence of the
Church in provincial affairs Unhappily for their plans they failed to
calculate in advance the effect of their methods upon dissenting
Protestants who still cherished memories of bitter religious conflicts
in the mother country

Puritanism in New England--If the established faith made for imperial
unity the same could not be said of Puritanism The Plymouth Pilgrims
had cast off all allegiance to the Anglican Church and established a
separate and independent congregation before they came to America The
Puritans essaying at first the task of reformers within the Church
soon after their arrival in Massachusetts likewise flung off their yoke
of union with the Anglicans In each town a separate congregation was
organized the male members choosing the pastor the teachers and the
other officers They also composed the voters in the town meeting where
secular matters were determined The union of church and government was
thus complete and uniformity of faith and life prescribed by law and
enforced by civil authorities; but this worked for local autonomy
instead of imperial unity

The clergy became a powerful class dominant through their learning and
their fearful denunciations of the faithless They wrote the books for
the people to read--the famous Cotton Mather having three hundred and
eighty-three books and pamphlets to his credit In cooperation with the
civil officers they enforced a strict observance of the Puritan
Sabbath--a day of rest that began at six oclock on Saturday evening and
lasted until sunset on Sunday All work all trading all amusement and
all worldly conversation were absolutely prohibited during those hours
A thoughtless maid servant who for some earthly reason smiled in church
was in danger of being banished as a vagabond Robert Pike a devout
Puritan thinking the sun had gone to rest ventured forth on horseback
one Sunday evening and was luckless enough to have a ray of light strike
him through a rift in the clouds The next day he was brought into court
and fined for his ungodly conduct With persons accused of witchcraft
the Puritans were still more ruthless When a mania of persecution swept
over Massachusetts in 1692 eighteen people were hanged one was pressed
to death many suffered imprisonment and two died in jail

Just about this time however there came a break in the uniformity of
Puritan rule The crown and church in England had long looked upon it
with disfavor and in 1684 King Charles II annulled the old charter of
the Massachusetts Bay Company A new document issued seven years later
wrested from the Puritans of the colony the right to elect their own
governor and reserved the power of appointment to the king It also
abolished the rule limiting the suffrage to church members substituting
for it a simple property qualification Thus a royal governor and an
official family certain to be Episcopalian in faith and monarchist in
sympathies were forced upon Massachusetts; and members of all religious
denominations if they had the required amount of property were
permitted to take part in elections By this act in the name of the
crown the Puritan monopoly was broken down in Massachusetts and that
province was brought into line with Connecticut Rhode Island and New
Hampshire where property not religious faith was the test for the
suffrage

Growth of Religious Toleration--Though neither the Anglicans of
Virginia nor the Puritans of Massachusetts believed in toleration for
other denominations that principle was strictly applied in Rhode
Island There under the leadership of Roger Williams liberty in
matters of conscience was established in the beginning Maryland by
granting in 1649 freedom to those who professed to believe in Jesus
Christ opened its gates to all Christians; and Pennsylvania true to
the tenets of the Friends gave freedom of conscience to those who
confess and acknowledge the one Almighty and Eternal God to be the
creator upholder and ruler of the World By one circumstance or
another the Middle colonies were thus early characterized by diversity
rather than uniformity of opinion Dutch Protestants Huguenots
Quakers Baptists Presbyterians New Lights Moravians Lutherans
Catholics and other denominations became too strongly intrenched and
too widely scattered to permit any one of them to rule if it had
desired to do so There were communities and indeed whole sections where
one or another church prevailed but in no colony was a legislature
steadily controlled by a single group Toleration encouraged diversity
and diversity in turn worked for greater toleration

The government and faith of the dissenting denominations conspired with
economic and political tendencies to draw America away from the English
state Presbyterians Quakers Baptists and Puritans had no hierarchy
of bishops and archbishops to bind them to the seat of power in London
Neither did they look to that metropolis for guidance in interpreting
articles of faith Local self-government in matters ecclesiastical
helped to train them for local self-government in matters political The
spirit of independence which led Dissenters to revolt in the Old World
nourished as it was amid favorable circumstances in the New World made
them all the more zealous in the defense of every right against
authority imposed from without


SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES

Religion and Local Schools--One of the first cares of each Protestant
denomination was the education of the children in the faith In this
work the Bible became the center of interest The English version was
indeed the one book of the people Farmers shopkeepers and artisans
whose life had once been bounded by the daily routine of labor found in
the Scriptures not only an inspiration to religious conduct but also a
book of romance travel and history Legend and annal says John
Richard Green war-song and psalm state-roll and biography the mighty
voices of prophets the parables of Evangelists stories of mission
journeys of perils by sea and among the heathen philosophic arguments
apocalyptic visions all were flung broadcast over minds unoccupied for
the most part by any rival learning As a mere literary monument the
English version of the Bible remains the noblest example of the English
tongue It was the King James version just from the press that the
Pilgrims brought across the sea with them

For the authority of the Established Church was substituted the
authority of the Scriptures The Puritans devised a catechism based upon
their interpretation of the Bible and very soon after their arrival in
America they ordered all parents and masters of servants to be diligent
in seeing that their children and wards were taught to read religious
works and give answers to the religious questions Massachusetts was
scarcely twenty years old before education of this character was
declared to be compulsory and provision was made for public schools
where those not taught at home could receive instruction in reading and
writing

[Illustration: A PAGE FROM A FAMOUS SCHOOLBOOK


     A In ADAMS Fall
       We sinned all

     B Heaven to find
       The Bible Mind

     C Christ crucifyd
       For sinners dyd

     D The Deluge drownd
       The Earth around

     E ELIJAH hid
       by Ravens fed

     F The judgment made
       FELIX afraid]



Outside of New England the idea of compulsory education was not regarded
with the same favor; but the whole land was nevertheless dotted with
little schools kept by dames itinerant teachers or local parsons
Whether we turn to the life of Franklin in the North or Washington in
the South we read of tiny schoolhouses where boys and sometimes
girls were taught to read and write Where there were no schools
fathers and mothers of the better kind gave their children the rudiments
of learning Though illiteracy was widespread there is evidence to show
that the diffusion of knowledge among the masses was making steady
progress all through the eighteenth century

Religion and Higher Learning--Religious motives entered into the
establishment of colleges as well as local schools Harvard founded in
1636 and Yale opened in 1718 were intended primarily to train
learned and godly ministers for the Puritan churches of New England
To the far North Dartmouth chartered in 1769 was designed first as a
mission to the Indians and then as a college for the sons of New England
farmers preparing to preach teach or practice law The College of New
Jersey organized in 1746 and removed to Princeton eleven years later
was sustained by the Presbyterians Two colleges looked to the
Established Church as their source of inspiration and support: William
and Mary founded in Virginia in 1693 and Kings College now Columbia
University chartered by King George II in 1754 on an appeal from the
New York Anglicans alarmed at the growth of religious dissent and the
republican tendencies of the age Two colleges revealed a drift away
from sectarianism Brown established in Rhode Island in 1764 and the
Philadelphia Academy forerunner of the University of Pennsylvania
organized by Benjamin Franklin reflected the spirit of toleration by
giving representation on the board of trustees to several religious
sects It was Franklins idea that his college should prepare young men
to serve in public office as leaders of the people and ornaments to
their country

Self-education in America--Important as were these institutions of
learning higher education was by no means confined within their walls
Many well-to-do families sent their sons to Oxford or Cambridge in
England Private tutoring in the home was common In still more families
there were intelligent children who grew up in the great colonial school
of adversity and who trained themselves until in every contest of mind
and wit they could vie with the sons of Harvard or William and Mary or
any other college Such for example was Benjamin Franklin whose
charming autobiography in addition to being an American classic is a
fine record of self-education His formal training in the classroom was
limited to a few years at a local school in Boston; but his
self-education continued throughout his life He early manifested a zeal
for reading and devoured he tells us his fathers dry library on
theology Bunyans works Defoes writings Plutarchs _Lives_ Lockes
_On the Human Understanding_ and innumerable volumes dealing with
secular subjects His literary style perhaps the best of his time
Franklin acquired by the diligent and repeated analysis of the
_Spectator_ In a life crowded with labors he found time to read widely
in natural science and to win single-handed recognition at the hands of
European savants for his discoveries in electricity By his own efforts
he attained an acquaintance with Latin Italian French and Spanish
thus unconsciously preparing himself for the day when he was to speak
for all America at the court of the king of France

Lesser lights than Franklin educated by the same process were found
all over colonial America From this fruitful source of native ability
self-educated the American cause drew great strength in the trials of
the Revolution


THE COLONIAL PRESS

The Rise of the Newspaper--The evolution of American democracy into a
government by public opinion enlightened by the open discussion of
political questions was in no small measure aided by a free press That
too like education was a matter of slow growth A printing press was
brought to Massachusetts in 1639 but it was put in charge of an
official censor and limited to the publication of religious works Forty
years elapsed before the first newspaper appeared bearing the curious
title _Public Occurrences Both Foreign and Domestic_ and it had not
been running very long before the government of Massachusetts suppressed
it for discussing a political question

Publishing indeed seemed to be a precarious business; but in 1704
there came a second venture in journalism _The Boston News-Letter_
which proved to be a more lasting enterprise because it refrained from
criticizing the authorities Still the public interest languished When
Franklins brother James began to issue his _New England Courant_
about 1720 his friends sought to dissuade him saying that one
newspaper was enough for America Nevertheless he continued it; and his
confidence in the future was rewarded In nearly every colony a gazette
or chronicle appeared within the next thirty years or more Benjamin
Franklin was able to record in 1771 that America had twenty-five
newspapers Boston led with five Philadelphia had three: two in English
and one in German

Censorship and Restraints on the Press--The idea of printing
unlicensed by the government and uncontrolled by the church was
however slow in taking form The founders of the American colonies had
never known what it was to have the free and open publication of books
pamphlets broadsides and newspapers When the art of printing was
first discovered the control of publishing was vested in clerical
authorities After the establishment of the State Church in England in
the reign of Elizabeth censorship of the press became a part of royal
prerogative Printing was restricted to Oxford Cambridge and London;
and no one could publish anything without previous approval of the
official censor When the Puritans were in power the popular party
with a zeal which rivaled that of the crown sought in turn to silence
royalist and clerical writers by a vigorous censorship After the
restoration of the monarchy control of the press was once more placed
in royal hands where it remained until 1695 when Parliament by
failing to renew the licensing act did away entirely with the official

censorship By that time political parties were so powerful and so
active and printing presses were so numerous that official review of all
published matter became a sheer impossibility

In America likewise some troublesome questions arose in connection
with freedom of the press The Puritans of Massachusetts were no less
anxious than King Charles or the Archbishop of London to shut out from
the prying eyes of the people all literature not mete for them to
read; and so they established a system of official licensing for
presses which lasted until 1755 In the other colonies where there was
more diversity of opinion and publishers could set up in business with


COLONIAL RELATIONS WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT

It was neither the Indian wars nor the French wars that finally brought
forth American nationality That was the product of the long strife
with the mother country which culminated in union for the war of
independence The forces that created this nation did not operate in the
colonies alone The character of the English sovereigns the course of
events in English domestic politics and English measures of control
over the colonies--executive legislative and judicial--must all be
taken into account


For several months Andros gave the Northern colonies a taste of
ill-tempered despotism He wrung quit rents from land owners not
accustomed to feudal dues; he abrogated titles to land where in his
opinion they were unlawful; he forced the Episcopal service upon the
Old South Church in Boston; and he denied the writ of _habeas corpus_ to
a preacher who denounced taxation without representation In the middle
of his arbitrary course however his hand was stayed The news came
that King James had been dethroned by his angry subjects and the people
of Boston kindling a fire on Beacon Hill summoned the countryside to
dispose of Andros The response was prompt and hearty The hated
governor was arrested imprisoned and sent back across the sea under
guard

The overthrow of James followed by the accession of William and Mary
and by assured parliamentary supremacy had an immediate effect in the
colonies The new order was greeted with thanksgiving Massachusetts was
given another charter which though not so liberal as the first
restored the spirit if not the entire letter of self-government In the
other colonies where Andros had been operating the old course of
affairs was resumed

The Indifference of the First Two Georges--On the death in 1714 of
Queen Anne the successor of King William the throne passed to a
Hanoverian prince who though grateful for English honors and revenues
was more interested in Hanover than in England George I and George II
whose combined reigns extended from 1714 to 1760 never even learned to
speak the English language at least without an accent The necessity of
taking thought about colonial affairs bored both of them so that the
stoutest defender of popular privileges in Boston or Charleston had no
ground to complain of the exercise of personal prerogatives by the king
Moreover during a large part of this period the direction of affairs
was in the hands of an astute leader Sir Robert Walpole who betrayed
his somewhat cynical view of politics by adopting as his motto: Let
sleeping dogs lie He revealed his appreciation of popular sentiment
by exclaiming: I will not be the minister to enforce taxes at the
expense of blood Such kings and such ministers were not likely to
arouse the slumbering resistance of the thirteen colonies across the
sea

Control of the Crown over the Colonies--While no English ruler from
James II to George III ventured to interfere with colonial matters
personally constant control over the colonies was exercised by royal
officers acting under the authority of the crown Systematic supervision
began in 1660 when there was created by royal order a committee of the
kings council to meet on Mondays and Thursdays of each week to consider
petitions memorials and addresses respecting the plantations In 1696
a regular board was established known as the Lords of Trade and
Plantations which continued until the American Revolution to
scrutinize closely colonial business The chief duties of the board were
to examine acts of colonial legislatures to recommend measures to those
assemblies for adoption and to hear memorials and petitions from the
colonies relative to their affairs

The methods employed by this board were varied All laws passed by
American legislatures came before it for review as a matter of routine
If it found an act unsatisfactory it recommended to the king the
exercise of his veto power known as the royal disallowance Any person
who believed his personal or property rights injured by a colonial law
could be heard by the board in person or by attorney; in such cases it
was the practice to hear at the same time the agent of the colony so
involved The royal veto power over colonial legislation was not
therefore a formal affair but was constantly employed on the
suggestion of a highly efficient agency of the crown All this was in
addition to the powers exercised by the governors in the royal
provinces

Judicial Control--Supplementing this administrative control over the
colonies was a constant supervision by the English courts of law The
king by virtue of his inherent authority claimed and exercised high
appellate powers over all judicial tribunals in the empire The right
of appeal from local courts expressly set forth in some charters was
on the eve of the Revolution maintained in every colony Any subject in
England or America who in the regular legal course was aggrieved by
any act of a colonial legislature or any decision of a colonial court
had the right subject to certain regulations to carry his case to the
king in council forcing his opponent to follow him across the sea In
the exercise of appellate power the king in council acting as a court
could and frequently did declare acts of colonial legislatures duly
enacted and approved null and void on the ground that they were
contrary to English law












																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
